#-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
# RCS-Id: "@(#)$RCS-Id: pod/v2/afsperlbos.pod 2e2ca60 Tue Apr 15 13:04:20 2014 +0200 Norbert E Gruener$"
#
# © 2005-2014 Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>
# © 2003-2004 Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>,
#             Venkata Phani Kiran Achanta <neo_phani@hotmail.com>, and
#             Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>
#
# This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
# the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

B<AFS::BOS> - Class to communicate with the B<AFS Basic Overseer Server>

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use AFS::BOS;

  my $bos = AFS::BOS->new('server');

  my $ok = $bos->addhost('hostname');
  my ($cell, $hosts) = $bos->listhosts;
  $ok = $bos->removehost('hostname');
  $bos->DESTROY;   # destroy server connection

  $bos = AFS::BOS->new('server');
  $ok = $bos->addkey(11, 'My Secret');
  my ($date, $keys) = $bos->listkeys;
  $ok = $bos->removekey([10, 11]);

  $ok = $bos->adduser('username');
  my @users = $bos->listusers;
  $ok = $bos->removeuser('username');

  my ($generalTime, $newBinaryTime) = $bos->getrestart;
  my ($general, $newbinary, $time) = (1, 0, 'sat 4:00');
  $ok = $bos->setrestart($time, $general, $newbinary);

  $ok = $bos->startup;
  my $status = $bos->status;
  $ok = $bos->shutdown;

  $ok = $bos->start(['vlserver']);
  $ok = $bos->restart(['fs', 'vlserver']);
  $ok = $bos->restart_bos;
  $ok = $bos->restart_all;
  $ok = $bos->stop(['vlserver']);

  my $restricted = $bos->getrestricted;
  $ok = $bos->setrestricted('on');

  $ok = $bos->create('kaserver', 'simple', ['/usr/afs/bin/kaserver']);
  $ok = $bos->delete('instance');

  $ok = $bos->exec('/sbin/shutdown -r now');

  my @logentries = $bos->getlog('FileLog');

  my ($all, $bak, $old, $core) = (0, 0, 0, 1);
  $ok = $bos->prune($all, $bak, $old, $core);

  $ok = $bos->salvage('/vicepa');

  $ok = $bos->setauth('on');

  $ok = $bos->setcellname('newcell.example.com');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class is used to communicate with a B<AFS Basic Overseer Server>,
which runs on every AFS server machine. It monitors and administers
the other server processes on that machine.  It has also methods to
maintain system configuration files.

Before you can submit any tasks to a Basic OverSeer (BOS) Server you
must establish a connection to a BOS Server.  This is done by the
constructor method I<new> which returns a BOS object.  A BOS object is
essentially a handle to talk to a Basic OverSeer Server on a given
server machine.  Such a BOS object is required before any of the other
BOS instance methods can be called.

=head1 COMPATIBILITY

There was no version 1 implementation and hence there are no version
conflicts :-)

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<CONSTRUCTOR>

=item S< >

=item B<$bos = AFS::BOS-E<gt>new(SERVER [, NOAUTH [, LOCALAUTH [, CELL [, ENCRYPT]]]]);>

Creates a new object of the class AFS::BOS and establishes a
connection to the Basic Overseer Server running on the SERVER machine.
An AFS::BOS object is essentially a handle to talk to the Basic
Overseer Server.  Internally an AFS::BOS object is a pointer to a
rx_connection structure, although this may change and the value
returned from AFS::BOS::new should always be treaded as an opaque
handle.

Set LOCALAUTH (default 0) to 1 only when issuing a command on a server
machine.  If NOAUTH is 1 (default 0) it establishes an unauthenticated
connection to the server, in which the server treats the issuer as an
unprivileged user.  CELL (default NULL) specifies the cell in which to
run the command.  Set ENCRYPT (default 1) to 0 if you want to use an
unencrypted connection. HANDLE WITH CARE!

=item B<DESTRUCTOR>

=item S< >

=item B<$bos-E<gt>DESTROY;>

Destroys the connection to the Basic Overseer Server and frees the
rx_connection structure.

=item B<INSTANCE METHODS>

=item S< >

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>addhost(HOST [, CLONE]);>

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>addhost(\@HOST [, CLONE]);>

Adds the given HOST to the local C<CellServDB> file.  HOST is either a
scalar value or a reference to an array of hosts.  If CLONE is set to
1 (default 0) the ubik vote of this host does not count.  This
argument is only available under OpenAFS.  It calls the AFS system
library function I<BOZO_AddCellHost>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>addkey(KVNO [, STRING]);>

B<NOT YET RELEASED>

Constructs a server encryption key from the text STRING provided,
assigns it the key version number KVNO, and adds it to the local
C<KeyFile> file.  If STRING is omitted, the BOS Server prompts for the
string and does not echo it visibly.  It calls the AFS system library
function I<BOZO_AddKey>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>adduser(USER);>

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>adduser(\@USER);>

Adds the given USER to the list of privileged users in the local
C<UserList> file.  USER is either a scalar value or a reference to an
array of names.  It calls the AFS system library function
I<BOZO_AddSUser>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>create(PROCESS, TYPE, COMMAND [, NOTIFIER]);>

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>create(PROCESS, TYPE, \@COMMAND [, NOTIFIER]);>

Creates a server PROCESS entry in the local C<BosConfig> file on the
server machine, sets the process's status to I<Run> in the
C<BosConfig> file and in memory, and starts the process.  TYPE
specifies the process's type. Acceptable values are: 'simple', 'cron',
and 'fs'.  COMMAND is either a scalar value or an array reference
containing the commands the BOS Server should run to start the
process.  NOTIFIER specifies the complete pathname of a program that
the BOS Server invokes when the process terminates.  It calls the AFS
system library function I<BOZO_CreateBnode>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>delete(INSTANCE);>

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>delete(\@INSTANCE);>

Deletes the entry INSTANCE from the local C<BosConfig> file.  INSTANCE
is either a scalar value or a reference to an array of instance names.

Before using this method, issue the stop method to stop the process
and set its status flag in the BosConfig file to NotRun. The delete
method fails with an error message if a process's status flag is Run.
It calls the AFS system library function I<BOZO_DeleteBnode>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>exec(COMMAND);>

Executes the indicated COMMAND on the BOS server machine.  It calls
the AFS system library function I<BOZO_Exec>.

=item B<@logfile = $bos-E<gt>getlog(LOGFILE);>

Returns an array with the contents of the specified LOGFILE from the
BOS server.  It calls the AFS system library function
I<StartBOZO_GetLog>.

=item B<($GTIME, $BTIME) = $bos-E<gt>getrestart;>

Returns the restart times GTIME and BTIME from the local C<BosConfig>
file.  GTIME is the general restart time at which the BOS Server
process automatically restarts itself.  BTIME is the binary restart
time at which the BOS Server automatically restarts any process for
which the time stamp on the binary file in the local C</usr/afs/bin>
directory is later than the last restart time for the process.  It
calls the AFS system library function I<BOZO_GetRestartTime>.

=item B<$restricted = $bos-E<gt>getrestricted;>

Returns the current I<restricted mode> of the BOS server. Return value
1 means I<restriced mode> enabled, 0 means disabled. This method is
only available under OpenAFS if the AFS system libraries were compiled
with the I<Restricted Mode Option>.  It calls the AFS system library
function I<BOZO_GetRestrictedMode>.

=item B<($CELL, $HOSTS) = $bos-E<gt>listhosts;>

Returns the name of the CELL and an array reference HOSTS
containing the list of database server machines.  It calls the AFS
system library function I<BOZO_Listhost>.

You can find an example how to print the entire content of the array
reference C<$HOSTS> in the C<examples/v2/bos> directory.

=item B<my($DATE, $KEYS) = $bos-E<gt>listkeys([SHOW]);>

Returns the DATE when a key was last added to the local C<KeyFile>
file and the hash reference KEYS containing the server encryption keys.
The hash keys are the key version numbers.  Set SHOW to 1 (default
0) to see the octal digits that constitute each key.  It calls the AFS
system library function I<BOZO_Listkeys>.

You can find an example how to print the entire content of the hash
reference C<$KEYS> in the C<examples/v2/bos> directory.

=item B<@users = $bos-E<gt>listusers;>

Returns an array containing a list of the privileged users from the
local C<UserList> file.  It calls the AFS system library function
I<BOZO_ListSUsers>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>prune([All [,BAK [, OLD [, CORE]]]]);>

Removes files from the local disk of the server machine.

Set BAK to 1 (default 0) to remove all files from the local
C</usr/afs/bin> directory that have a C<BAK> extension.

Set OLD to 1 (default 0) to remove all files from the local
C</usr/afs/bin> directory that have an C<OLD> extension.

Set CORE to 1 (default 0) to remove all files from the local
C</usr/afs/logs> directory that have a C<core> prefix.

Set ALL to 1 (default 0) to remove all three types of files at once.

If none of these flags are set, no files are removed, but a warning
message is displayed.  It calls the AFS system library function
I<BOZO_Prune>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>removehost(HOST);>

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>removehost(\@HOST);>

Removes the database server machine HOST from the local C<CellServDB>
file.  HOST is either a scalar value or a reference to an array of
names.  It calls the AFS system library function
I<BOZO_DeleteCellHost>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>removekey(KVNO);>

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>removekey(\@KVNO);>

B<NOT YET RELEASED>

Removes the server encryption key with the given key version number
KVNO from the local C<KeyFile> file.  KVNO is either a scalar value or
a reference to an array of key version numbers.  It calls the AFS
system library function I<BOZO_DeleteKey>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>removeuser(USER);>

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>removeuser(\@USER);>

Removes the privileged USER from the local C<UserList> file. USER is
either a scalar value or a reference to an array of users.  It calls
the AFS system library function I<BOZO_DeleteSuser>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>restart_bos;>

Stops and immediately restarts all AFS server processes, including the
BOS Server. A new BOS Server starts immediately, and it starts a new
instance of each process that is marked with the I<run status flag>.

It calls the AFS system library function I<BOZO_ReBozo>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>restart_all;>

Stops and immediately restarts all AFS server processes, except the
BOS Server, that are marked with the I<run status flag>.

It calls the AFS system library function I<BOZO_RestartAll>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>restart(SERVER);>

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>restart(\@SERVER);>

Stops and immediately restarts the SERVER processes on the server
machine, regardless of its I<run status flag>. SERVER is either a
scalar value or a reference to an array of server names.

It calls the AFS system library function I<BOZO_Restart>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>salvage([PARTITION] ...));>

B<NOT YET RELEASED>

??? The argument list must be completed CORRECTLY  !!!

Salvages (restores internal consistency to) one or more volumes on the
file server machine

??? Here must be a COMPLETE description of all arguments !!!

If your file server runs MR-AFS, a bunch of additional boolean options
are supported: debug, nowrite, force, oktozap, rootfiles, salvagedirs,
blockreads, ListResidencies, SalvageRemote, SalvageArchival,
IgnoreCheck, ForceOnLine, UseRootDirACL, TraceBadLinkCounts,
DontAskFS, LogLevel, rxdebug, Residencies.

Internally, a temporary cron job is created via 'BOZO_CreateBnode>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>setauth('on' | 'off');>

Enables ('on') or disables('off') authorization checking for all
server processes on the server machine.  It calls the AFS system
library function I<BOZO_SetNoAuthFlag>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>setcellname(NAME);>

B<NOT YET RELEASED>

Establishes the cell's NAME and makes the server machine a member of
it.  And it records the NAME in the two local files C<ThisCell> and
C<CellServDB>.  It calls the AFS system library function
I<BOZO_SetCellName>.

B<Cautions>

Use this method only when installing the cell's first AFS server
machine. The I<AFS Quick Beginnings> documentation explains how to
copy over the C<ThisCell> and C<CellServDB> files from this or another
appropriate machine during installation of additional server machines.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>setrestart(TIME [, GENERAL [, NEWBINARY]]);>

Sets the restart TIME at which the BOS Server restarts processes.  Set
GENERAL to 1 (default 0) to set the restart time of the BOS Server to
TIME.  This TIME is once per week.  Set NEWBINARY to 1 (default 0) to
set the binary restart time.  The TIME is once per day.  Only one of
the arguments GENERAL and NEWBINARY can be set.  It calls the AFS
system library function I<BOZO_SetRestartTime>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>setrestricted(MODE);>

Enables (MODE = 1) or disables (MODE = 0) the I<restricted mode> for
the BOS server which disables certain bosserver functionality.  This
method is only available under OpenAFS if the AFS system libraries were
compiled with the I<Restricted Mode Option>.  It calls the AFS system
library function I<BOZO_SetRestrictedMode>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>shutdown([SERVER, ] [WAIT]);>

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>shutdown([\@SERVER, ] [WAIT]);>

Stops on the server machine either all running server processes,
excluding the BOS server process or the SERVER process.  SERVER is
either a scalar value or a reference to an array of process names.  It
does not change its status flag in the local C<BosConfig> file but
only in the BOS Server's memory.  Set WAIT to 1 (default 0) to delay
the program flow until all processes actually stop. Otherwise the
method returns almost immediately even if all processes are not
stopped.  It calls the AFS system library function I<BOZO_WaitAll>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>start(SERVER);>

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>start(\@SERVER);>

Sets the I<status flag> for each SERVER process to I<Run> in the local
C<BosConfig> file and in the BOS Server's memory on the server
machine, then starts it.  If the SERVER process is already running,
the only effect is to guarantee that the status flag is I<Run>; it
does not restart the process.  SERVER is either a scalar value or a
reference to an array of process names.  It calls the AFS system
library function I<BOZO_SetStatus>.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>startup([SERVER]);>

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>startup([\@SERVER]);>

Starts on the server machine either all server processes not currently
running but marked with the I<run status flag> in the local
C<BosConfig> file or the process SERVER even if its status flag in the
C<BosConfig> file is I<NotRun>.  SERVER is either a scalar value or a
reference to an array of process names.  The I<run status flag> in the
local C<BosConfig> file will not be changed.  It calls the AFS system
library function I<BOZO_StartupAll> or I<BOZO_SetTStatus>.

=item B<$STATUS = $bos-E<gt>status([LONG [, SERVER]]);>

=item B<$STATUS = $bos-E<gt>status([LONG [, \@SERVER]]);>

Returns the STATUS of either all server processes listed in the local
C<BosConfig> file or the process SERVER.  SERVER is either a scalar
value or a reference to an array of process names.  STATUS is a hash
reference containing the current process status.  Set LONG to 1
(default 0) to get extended information about the process status.  It
calls the AFS system library function I<BOZO_GetStatus>.

You can find an example how to print the entire content of the hash
reference C<$STATUS> in the C<examples/v2/bos> directory.

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>stop(SERVER [, WAIT]);>

=item B<$ok = $bos-E<gt>stop(\@SERVER [, WAIT]);>

Sets the status flag for each SERVER process to I<NotRun> in the local
C<BosConfig> file on the server machine, then stops it.  SERVER is
either a scalar value or a reference to an array of process names.
Set WAIT to 1 (default 0) to delay the program flow until all
processes actually stop. Otherwise the method returns almost
immediately even if all processes are not stopped.  It calls the AFS
system library function I<>.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

The code and documentation for this class were contributed by Stanford
Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.  This
documentation were written by

=over

=item Alf Wachsmann E<lt>alfw@slac.stanford.eduE<gt>,

=item Venkata Phani Kiran Achanta E<lt>neo_phani@hotmail.comE<gt>, and

=item Norbert E. Gruener E<lt>nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.deE<gt>

=item S< >

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

 Copyright (c) 2005-2012 Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>
 Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>,
                         Venkata Phani Kiran Achanta <neo_phani@hotmail.com>, and
                         Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>
 All rights reserved.

Most of the explanations in this document are taken from the original
AFS documentation.

 AFS-3 Programmer's Reference:
 BOS Server Interface
 Edward R. Zayas
 Copyright (c) 1991 Transarc Corporation.
 All rights reserved.

 IBM AFS Administration Reference
 Copyright (c) IBM Corporation 2000.
 All rights reserved.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 DOCUMENT VERSION

Revision $Rev: 1130 $
