#------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# RCS-Id: "@(#)$RCS-Id: pod/v2/afsperlpts.pod 2e2ca60 Tue Apr 15 13:04:20 2014 +0200 Norbert E Gruener$"
#
# © 2001-2014 Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>
#
# This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
# the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

B<AFS::PTS> - Class to communicate with the B<AFS Protection Server>

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use AFS::PTS;

  my $num_flg = AFS::PTS->convert_numeric_names;
  my $bits  = AFS::PTS->ascii2ptsaccess("S----");
  my $flags = AFS::PTS->ptsaccess2ascii($bits);

  my $pts = AFS::PTS->new;

  my $id    = $pts->createuser('guest');
  my $entry = $pts->listentry('guest');
  foreach my $key ( sort keys %$entry) {
      printf("%20s =>  %s\n", $key, $$entry{$key});
  }
  $ok = $pts->delete('guest');
  undef $pts;   # destroy server connection

  $pts   = AFS::PTS->new;
  $entry = $pts->dumpentry(67136, 1, 1);
  foreach my $key ( sort keys %$entry) {
      printf("%20s =>  %s\n", $key, $$entry{$key});
  }

  my $over  = 1;
  my @names = $pts->getcps('nog', 1, $over);
  print "OVER = $over \n";
  print "cps for NOG\n";
  foreach my $mem (sort @names) {
      print "  $mem\n";
  }

  AFS::PTS->convert_numeric_names(1);
  my @ids = (28053, 1, 105, 32000, 32766);
  @names  = $pts->PR_IDToName(\@ids);
  foreach my $name (@names) {
      print "name = $name\n";
  }

  print "Convert(nog): ", $pts->id('nog'), "\n";

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class is used to communicate with the B<AFS Protection Server> in
order to maintain and to administer the Protection Database maintained
by the Protection Server.  The Protection Database stores information
about AFS users, client machines, and groups which the File Server
process uses to determine whether clients are authorized to access AFS
data.

This class provides methods to map back and forth between user account
names and their internal numerical AFS identifiers. It also manages
the creation, manipulation, and update of user-defined groups suitable
for use on ACLs.  It has methods to query the information held for any
given AFS user or group and to create, modify, and delete the records
in the PDB where the above information is held.

Before you can access any PDB records you must establish a connection
to the Protection Server.  This is done by the constructor method
C<new> which returns a PTS object.  A PTS object is essentially a
handle to talk to the Protection Server in a given cell.  Such a PTS
object is required before any of the other PTS instance methods can be
called.

All PR_* methods are essentially the same as the low-level AFS PTS
APIs and are considered as I<low-level> methods.  The other methods
(considered as high-level) are more I<user friendly> and perl-like.
Whereas the low-level (PR_*) methods only accept numerical values for
names or groups the high-level methods accept either numeric IDs or
names.

=head1 COMPATIBILITY

B<This release does NOT support any features and interfaces
from version 1.>

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<CONSTRUCTOR>

=item S< >

=item B<$pts = AFS::PTS-E<gt>new(([SEC [, CELL]]);>

Creates a new object of the class AFS::PTS.  An AFS::PTS object is
essentially a handle to talk to the Protection Server in a given
CELL.  Internally an AFS::PTS object is a pointer to a ubik_client
structure, although this may change and the value returned from
AFS::PTS::new should always be treaded as an opaque handle.

CELL defaults to NULL.  The security level SEC (default 1) is a number
from 0 to 2:

   0    un-authenticated connection should be made
   1    try authenticated first, fall back to un-authenticated
   2    fail if an authenticated connection can't be made

=item B<DESTRUCTOR>

=item S< >

=item B<$pts-E<gt>DESTROY;>

Destroys the ubik connection to the Protection Server and frees the ubik
connection structure.

=item B<CLASS METHODS>

=item S< >

=item B<$bits = AFS::PTS-E<gt>ascii2ptsaccess(FLAGS);>

Converts the privacy flags FLAGS (a string of five characters) into
its corresponding five privacy bits. The privacy flags indicate who
can display or administer certain aspects of a PTS entry.

=item B<$flags = AFS::PTS-E<gt>ptsaccess2ascii(BITS);>

Converts the five PTS privacy bits BITS into its corresponding privacy
flags (a string of five characters).  The privacy flags indicate who
can display or administer certain aspects of a PTS entry.

=item B<$value = AFS::PTS-E<gt>convert_numeric_names;>

=item B<AFS::PTS-E<gt>convert_numeric_names(NEWVAL);>

Gets or sets the global flag for converting names into numeric AFS ids.
If conversion is 'on' (default) all names NOT looking like a numeric
value are converted into its AFS id. If you set NEWVAL to 0 (conversion
is 'off'), B<NO> conversion is done.  You'll probably want to leave
conversion 'on' unless you create PTS names that look exactly like
numbers. (not a good idea to begin with :-)

=item S< >

=item B<INSTANCE METHODS> (high-level)

All high-level methods will accept either numeric AFS ids or AFS user
names.

=item S< >

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>adduser(NAME, GROUP);>

Adds the given user NAME to the specified GROUP.  It calls the AFS
system library function 'PR_AddToGroup'.

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>chid(NAME, NEWID);>

Changes the id for the given entry NAME to NEWID.  It calls the AFS
system library function 'PR_ChangeEntry'.

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>chown(NAME, OWNER);>

Changes the owner of the given entry NAME to OWNER.  It calls the AFS
system library function 'PR_ChangeEntry'.

=item B<$id = $pts-E<gt>creategroup(NAME [, OWNER [, GID]]);>

Creates the new group NAME. You can optionally specify the OWNER and
the id GID of the new group.  If successful, the group ID allocated
for this new entry is returned. It calls the AFS system library
function 'PR_INewEntry' or 'PR_NewEntry'.

=item B<$id = $pts-E<gt>createuser(NAME [, UID]);>

Creates the new user NAME. You can optionally specify the id UID of
the new user.  If successful, the user ID allocated for this new entry
is returned. It calls the AFS system library function 'PR_INewEntry'
or 'PR_NewEntry'.

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>delete(NAME);>

Deletes the entry NAME.  It calls the AFS system library function
'PR_Delete'.

=item B<$entry = $pts-E<gt>dumpentry(POS [, LOOKUP_ID [, CONV]]);>

Returns a reference to a hash table containing the values from the C
structure C<prdebugentry>. If LOOKUP_ID is 1 (default) then the AFS ids
in the hash table will be converted to names. If CONV is 1 (default)
then flags will be converted to its ASCII representation.  It calls
the AFS system library function 'PR_DumpEntry'.

=item B<@members = $pts-E<gt>getcps(NAME [, LOOKUP_ID [, OVER]]);>

Returns the I<Current Protection Subdomain> (CPS) for the given PTS
id. The CPS is the closure of all identities that the given NAME can
use. This list includes all the groups NAME belongs to, the special
AFS ids (system:anyuser and system:authuser), as well as the id
itself. If LOOKUP_ID is 1 (default) then names will be returned.  If
the size of the list is greater then &AFS::PR_MAXGROUPS then OVER will
be set to a non-zero value and only &AFS::PR_MAXGROUPS items will be
returned.  It calls the AFS system library function 'PR_GetCPS'.

=item B<$id = $pts-E<gt>id($NAME [, ANON]]);>

=item B<@id = $pts-E<gt>id(\@NAME [, ANON]]);>

=item B<$idref = $pts-E<gt>id(\%NAME [, ANON]]);>

Converts the NAME into a AFS id. The first method returns a single
id. The second method takes a reference to an array of names and
returns an array of ids. The third method takes a reference to a hash
table, the keys of which are names, and returns a reference to the
B<same hash>, with the ids as the value of each key.

If ANON is 1 (default) and a given name does not map into an id then
the value &AFS::ANONYMOUSID will be returned. If ANON is 0 then the id
will be set to undef.  It calls the AFS system library function
'PR_NameToID'.

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>ismember(NAME, GROUP);>

Returns a non-zero value if NAME is a member of GROUP.  It calls the
AFS system library function 'PR_IsAMemberOf'.

=item B<$entry = $pts-E<gt>listentry(NAME [, LOOKUP_ID [, CONV]]);>

Returns a reference to a hash table containing the values from the C
structure C<prcheckentry>.  If LOOKUP_ID is 1 (default) then the PTS
ids in the hash table will be converted to names. If CONV is 1
(default) then flags will be converted to its ASCII representation.
It calls the AFS system library function 'PR_ListEntry'.

=item B<($uid, $gid) = $pts-E<gt>listmax;>

Returns the largest allocated user ID and group ID.  It calls the AFS
system library function 'PR_ListMax'.

=item B<@members = $pts-E<gt>members(NAME [, LOOKUP_ID [, OVER]]);>

Returns the list of groups in which the user NAME is a member. If NAME
is a group, this method returns a list of users which are in that
group. If LOOKUP_ID is 1 (default) then names will be returned.  If
the size of the list is greater then &AFS::PR_MAXGROUPS then OVER will
be set to a non-zero value and only &AFS::PR_MAXGROUPS items will be
returned.  It calls the AFS system library function 'PR_ListElements'.

=item B<$name = $pts-E<gt>name(ID [, ANON]]);>

=item B<@name = $pts-E<gt>name(ID [, ANON]]);>

=item B<$nameref = $pts-E<gt>name(ID [, ANON]]);>

Converts AFS ID into a name. The first method returns a single
name. The second method takes a reference to an array of ids and
returns an array of names. The third method takes a reference to a
hash table, the keys of which are ids, and returns a reference to the
B<same hash>, with the names as the value of each key.  If ANON is 1
(default) and a given id does not map into a name then the id value
will be converted to a string (i.e, 11234 => "11234").

If ANON is 0 then the name will be set to undef.  It calls the AFS
system library function 'PR_IDToName'.

=item B<@members = $pts-E<gt>owned(NAME [, LOOKUP_ID [, OVER]]);>

Returns a list of AFS ids owned by the given user or group NAME.  If
NAME is 0, then the PDB orphan list is returned. There is also a
global orphan list, which contains entries for all orphans, namely
groups belonging to users that have been deleted from the PDB. If
LOOKUP_ID is 1 (default) then names will be returned.  If the size of
the list is greater then &AFS::PR_MAXGROUPS then OVER will be set to a
non-zero value and only &AFS::PR_MAXGROUPS items will be returned.  It
calls the AFS system library function 'PR_ListOwned'.

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>rename(NAME, NEWNAME);>

Renames NAME into NEWNAME.  It calls the AFS system library function
'PR_ChangeEntry'.

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>removeuser(NAME, GROUP);>

Removes the user NAME from GROUP.  It calls the AFS system library
function 'PR_RemoveFromGroup'.

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>setaccess(NAME, NEWFLAG);>

Sets the privacy flags for the given entry NAME to NEWFLAG.  It calls
the AFS system library function 'PR_SetFieldsEntry'.

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>setgroupquota(NAME, NGROUPS);>

Sets the group creation quota for NAME to NGROUPS.  It calls the AFS
system library function 'PR_SetFieldsEntry'.

=item B<$max = $pts-E<gt>setmax(ID [, ISGROUP]);>

If ISGROUP is 0 (default) then the maximum id number for user is set
to ID. Otherwise the maximum id number of groups is set to ID.  It
calls the AFS system library function 'PR_SetMax'.

=item B<$pos = $pts-E<gt>whereisit(NAME);>

Returns the PDB byte offset of NAME. This method is used in
conjunction with the method 'dumpentry'.  It calls the AFS system
library function 'PR_WhereIsIt'.

=item S< >

=item B<INSTANCE METHODS> (low-level)

The following low-level methods deal only with numeric AFS ids.

=item S< >

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>PR_AddToGroup(UID, GID);>

Adds the given AFS UID to the group whose numerical identifier is
GID.

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>PR_ChangeEntry(ID, NAME, OID, NEWID);>

Allows the caller to change one or more aspects of the user or group
entry in the PDB whose numerical id is ID. An attempt to change the
entry for any of the reserved AFS ids (ANYUSERID, AUTHUSERID,
ANONYMOUSID, or SYSADMINID) will be rejected. The new name, if any, to
assign to the entry is held in NAME. If no name change is to be made,
then the name argument may be set to NULL.  Similarly, the numerical
ID of the entry's (possibly new) owner is listed in the OID
parameter. If no owner change is desired, OID is set to zero. Finally,
a new numerical ID may be specified for the given entry in NEWID. If
this is set to zero, then the entry's ID will not be altered.

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>PR_Delete(ID);>

Deletes the PDB entry for the user or group whose id is ID.

=item B<$entry = $pts-E<gt>PR_DumpEntry(POS);>

Returns the contents of the PDB entry located at byte offset POS
within the database, and is intended to be used only for debugging.

=item B<@ids = $pts-E<gt>PR_GetCPS(ID, OVER);>

Generate the Current Protection Subdomain, or CPS, for the AFS user with
the given numerical ID. Basically, the CPS is the closure of all
identities that the given ID can use.  This list of groups and special
AFS ids (e.g. ANYUSERID and AUTHUSERID) to which the specified user
belongs is returned.  The user's own ID also appears on this list. If
the size of the list has overflowed the maximum list size, PR_MAXGROUPS
(5,000), then the OVER argument is set to a non­zero value.

=item B<@names = $pts-E<gt>PR_IDToName(\@IDS);>

Converts the array of numerical AFS user IDS into the appropriate
printable AFS user names. Entries in the given list IDS for which the
Protection Server does not have an ID­to­name mapping are translated
to the string representation of the numerical ID, in base 10.

=item B<$id = $pts-E<gt>PR_INewEntry(NAME, ID, OID);>

Creates an entry in the PDB for a user or group with the given NAME,
and whose owner's id is OID.  The numerical AFS id must be set to the
given value ID.  If successful, the given ID allocated for this new
entry is returned.

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>PR_IsAMemberOf(UID, GID);>

Returns a non-zero value if user UID is a member of group GID.

=item B<@ids = $pts-E<gt>PR_ListElements(ID, OVER);>

For the user ID, this method returns the list of groups in which the
user is a member. For the group ID, this method returns a list of
users which are in that group. Note that this function returns
numerical ids, not names.  If the size of the generated list has
overflowed the maximum list size, PR_MAXGROUPS (5,000), then the OVER
argument is set to a non­zero value.

=item B<$entry = $pts-E<gt>PR_ListEntry(ID);>

Returns a reference to a hash table containing the values from the C
structure C<prcheckentry> for the PDB entry ID. No conversion is done
on ids or flags.

=item B<($uid, $gid) = $pts-E<gt>PR_ListMax;>

Returns the largest allocated user id and group id.

=item B<@members = $pts-E<gt>PR_ListOwned(ID, OVER);>

Returns a list of AFS ids owned by the given user or group ID.  If the
ID parameter is set to zero, then the PDB orphan list is returned. If
the size of the generated list has overflowed the maximum list size,
PR_MAXGROUPS (5,000), then the OVER argument is set to a non­zero
value.

=item B<@ids = $pts-E<gt>PR_NameToID(\@NAMES);>

Converts the array of AFS NAMES into the appropriate AFS ids.  Entries
in the given list NAMES for which the Protection Server does not have
an ID­to­name mapping are set to &AFS::ANONYMOUS.


=item B<$id = $pts-E<gt>PR_NewEntry(NAME, FLAG, OID);>

Creates an entry in the PDB for a user or group with the given NAME,
and whose owner's ID is OID.  If successful, the user or group ID
allocated for this new entry is returned.  The FLAG argument is used
to communicate whether the entry is for a user or group. Legal values
are

    &AFS::PRGRP   create a group
    &AFS::PRUSER  create a user

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>PR_RemoveFromGroup(UID, GID);>

Removes the given AFS id UID from the group identified by GID.

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>PR_SetFieldsEntry(ID, MASK, FLAGS, NGROUPS, NUSERS, S1, S2);>

This method allows a caller to change one or more fields within the
PDB entry matching the given user ID. The MASK argument is used to
select which fields are to be changed. Depending on what has been
selected, the values placed in the argument fLAGS (setting the flag
bits), NGROUPS (setting the group creation limit), and/or NUSERS
(setting the foreign user limit) are inserted into the PDB entry. The
remaining two arguments, S1 and S2, are not referenced, and are
reserved for future expansion.

=item B<$ok = $pts-E<gt>PR_SetMax(ID, GFLAG);>

Sets the value of either the highest­allocated AFS user or group to
ID. The GFLAG argument is set to a non­zero value if the given ID is
for a group, and to zero for an individual user.

=item B<$pos = $pts-E<gt>PR_WhereIsIt(ID);>

Returns the PDB byte offset for ID. This method is used in conjunction
with the method 'PR_DumpEntry'.

=back

=head1 CURRENT AUTHOR

Norbert E. Gruener E<lt>nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.deE<gt>

=head1 AUTHOR EMERITUS

Roland Schemers E<lt>schemers@slapshot.stanford.eduE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

 Copyright (c) 2001-2010 Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>.
 All rights reserved.

 Copyright (c) 1994 Board of Trustees, Leland Stanford Jr. University.
 All rights reserved.

Most of the explanations in this document are taken from the original
AFS documentation.

 AFS-3 Programmer's Reference:
 Protection Server Interface
 Edward R. Zayas
 Copyright (c) 1991 Transarc Corporation.
 All rights reserved.

 IBM AFS Administration Reference
 Copyright (c) IBM Corporation 2000.
 All rights reserved.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=over 6

=item The original module is covered by the following copyright:

Copyright (c) 1994 Board of Trustees, Leland Stanford Jr. University

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
advertising materials, and other materials related to such
distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
by Stanford University.  The name of the University may not be used
to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=back

=head1 DOCUMENT VERSION

Revision $Rev: 1059 $
