#------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# RCS-Id: "@(#)$RCS-Id: pod/v2/afsperlutils.pod 2e2ca60 Tue Apr 15 13:04:20 2014 +0200 Norbert E Gruener$"
#
# © 2001-2014 Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>
#
# This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
# the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

B<AFS::Utils> - Shared utility functions for the B<AFS module bundle>

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use AFS::Utils qw (
                    XSVERSION get_server_version get_syslib_version
                    setpag sysname unlog
                    );

  my $ok = setpag();
  print "Return Code = $ok\n";

  print 'XS-Version = ', XSVERSION, "\n";
  print 'Syslib Version = ', get_syslib_version, "\n";
  print 'Server Version = ', get_server_version('pts', 'ibm-1'), "\n";

  my $sysname = sysname;

  unlog;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides several utility functions for the B<AFS module
bundle>.  You can retrieve the version number for the underlying AFS
system libraries, for the XS module, and for the AFS server processes.
And it contains several commands that do not belong to any AFS command
suites like creating a new PAG or retrieving and setting the
CPU/operating system type. Any function required must by explicitly
listed by the C<use> statement to be exported into the calling package.

=head1 COMPATIBILITY

B<This release does NOT support any features and interfaces
from version 1.>

=head1 EXPORTS

=head2 Standard Exports

none

=head2 Optional Exports

The following functions will be exported into your namespace if you
specifically ask that they be imported.

=over 4

=item B<$version = XSVERSION;>

Reports the version number of the underlying XS file.

=item B<$version = get_server_version(SERVER [, HOST [, VERBOSE]]);>

Reports the version number of the SERVER process running at HOST
(default localhost). If VERBOSE (default 0) is set to 1 some program
trace is printed.

=item B<$version = get_syslib_version;>

Reports the version number of the underlying AFS system library.

=item B<$ok = setpag;>

Creates a new command shell (owned by the issuer of the command) and
associates a new process authentication group (PAG) with the shell and
the user. A PAG is a number guaranteed to identify the issuer of
commands in the new shell uniquely to the local Cache Manager.

=item B<$sysname = sysname([NEWSYSNAME]);>

Reports the CPU/operating system type or sets the CPU/operating system
type to NEWSYSNAME.

=item B<unlog;>

Discards all of the issuer's tokens.

=back

=head1 CURRENT AUTHOR

Norbert E. Gruener E<lt>nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.deE<gt>

=head1 AUTHOR EMERITUS

Roland Schemers E<lt>schemers@slapshot.stanford.eduE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

 Copyright (c) 2001-2010 Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>.
 All rights reserved.

 Copyright (c) 1994 Board of Trustees, Leland Stanford Jr. University.
 All rights reserved.

Most of the explanations in this document are taken from the original
AFS documentation.

 AFS-3 Programmer's Reference:
 File Server/Cache Manager Interface
 Edward R. Zayas
 Copyright (c) 1991 Transarc Corporation.
 All rights reserved.

 IBM AFS Administration Reference
 Copyright (c) IBM Corporation 2000.
 All rights reserved.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=over 6

=item The original module is covered by the following copyright:

Copyright (c) 1994 Board of Trustees, Leland Stanford Jr. University

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
advertising materials, and other materials related to such
distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
by Stanford University.  The name of the University may not be used
to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=back

=head1 DOCUMENT VERSION

Revision $Rev: 1059 $
