#------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# RCS-Id: "@(#)$RCS-Id: pod/v2/afsperlkas.pod 2e2ca60 Tue Apr 15 13:04:20 2014 +0200 Norbert E Gruener$"
#
# © 2001-2014 Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>
#
# This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
# the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

B<AFS::KAS> - Class to communicate with the B<AFS Authentication Server>

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use AFS::KAS;
  use AFS::KTC_PRINCIPAL;
  use AFS::KTC_TOKEN;
  use AFS::KTC_EKEY;

  my $admin = AFS::KTC_PRINCIPAL->new('admin');
  my $key   = AFS::KTC_EKEY->ReadPassword($admin->name."'s Password:");
  my $token = AFS::KTC_TOKEN->GetAdminToken($admin, $key, 300);
  my $kas   = AFS::KAS->AuthServerConn($token, &AFS::KA_MAINTENANCE_SERVICE);

  my $user  = AFS::KTC_PRINCIPAL->new('xyz');
  my $ukey  = AFS::KTC_EKEY->ReadPassword($user->name."'s Password:");

  my $ok = $kas->create($user->name, $user->instance, $ukey);

  my $flags    = 1;        # (1 = normal, 4 = admin)
  my $expire   = 925715000;# epoch time => 03 May 1999 07:03
  my $maxassoc = 0;
  my $lifetime = 48*60*60; #unit is secs; => 48 hrs
  my $pwexpire = 10;       #number of days
  my $pw_reuse = 2;        #pwreuse allowed: [ 2 = no ]
  my $nfail    = 4;        #(nfail - 1) tries are allowed; => 3 tries
  my $locktime = 3;        #unit is 8.5 min => 3 * (8.5)
  my $spare2   = 0;

  my $packed = (($pwexpire << 24)|($pw_reuse << 16)|($nfail << 8)|$locktime);

  $ok = $kas->setfields($user->name, $user->instance, $flags,
                        $expire, $lifetime, $maxassoc, $packed);

  my $entry = $kas->getentry($user->name, $user->instance);
  $packed   = $$entry{'misc_auth_bytes'};
  $pwexpire = (($packed >> 24) & 0xff);
  $is_lockd = (($packed >> 16) & 0xff);
  $nfail    = (($packed >>  8) & 0xff);
  $locktime = (($packed >>  0) & 0xff);
  $pw_reuse = $$entry{'passwd_reuse'} - 0x12340000;

  $kas->DESTROY;           # destroy server connection

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class is used to communicate with the B<AFS Authentication
Server>.  It verifies user identities and provides the facilities
through which participants in transactions prove their identities to
one another (mutually authenticate). It maintains the Authentication
Database, in which it stores user passwords converted into encryption
key form as well as the AFS server encryption key.  It has methods to
query the information held for any given AFS user and to create,
modify, and delete the records in the DB where the above information
is held.

Before you can access any DB record you must establish a connection to
the Authentication Server.  This is done by the constructor methods
I<SingleServerConn> and I<AuthServerConn> which return a KAS object.  A
KAS object is essentially a handle to talk to an Authentication Server
in a given cell.  Such a KAS object is required before any of the
other KAS instance methods can be called.

=head1 COMPATIBILITY

B<This release does NOT support any features and interfaces
from version 1.>

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<CONSTRUCTOR>

=item S< >

=item B<$kas = AFS::KAS-E<gt>AuthServerConn(TOKEN, SERVICE [, CELL]);>

Creates a new object of the class AFS::KAS and establishes connections
to all the Authentication Servers in a given CELL (default null).  An
AFS::KAS object is essentially a handle to talk to the Authentication
Server.  Internally an AFS::KAS object is a pointer to a ubik_client
structure, although this may change and the value returned should always
be treaded as an opaque handle.  A TOKEN may or may not be needed
depending on the SERVICE.  TOKEN must be an instance of AFS::KTC_TOKEN.
Possible values for SERVICE are

   &AFS::KA_MAINTENANCE_SERVICE
   &AFS::KA_AUTHENTICATION_SERVICE
   &AFS::KA_TICKET_GRANTING_SERVICE

It calls the AFS system library function 'ka_AuthServerConn'.

=item B<$kas = AFS::KAS-E<gt>SingleServerConn(HOST, TOKEN, SERVICE [, CELL]);>

Creates a new object of the class AFS::KAS and establishes a connection
to only one Authentication Server running on HOST in a given CELL
(default null).  An AFS::KAS object is essentially a handle to talk to
the Authentication Server.  Internally an AFS::KAS object is a pointer
to a ubik_client structure, although this may change and the value
returned should always be treaded as an opaque handle.  A TOKEN may or
may not be needed depending on the SERVICE.  TOKEN must be an instance
of AFS::KTC_TOKEN.  Possible values for SERVICE are

   &AFS::KA_MAINTENANCE_SERVICE

It calls the AFS system library function 'ka_SingleServerConn'.

=item B<DESTRUCTOR>

=item S< >

=item B<$kas-E<gt>DESTROY;>

Destroys the ubik connection to the Authentication Server and frees the
ubik connection structure.

=item B<INSTANCE METHODS>

Nearly all instance methods come in two flavors. The KAM_* methods
are essentially the same as the low-level AFS KAS APIs.  The other
methods are simply just wrappers around the KAM_* methods.  These have
been introduced in order to offer a more perlish interface :-)

=item S< >

=item B<$token = $kas-E<gt>Authenticate(UNAME, UINST, SERVICE, EKEY, STIME, ETIME [, PWEXP]);>

Returns a token for the user entry UNAME.UINST for the specified
SERVICE.  The desired ticket lifetime is specified by STIME and ETIME
(given in 5 minute intervals). This ticket is referred to as the
AuthTicket.  EKEY contains the encrypted user password and must be an
instance of AFS::KTC_EKEY.  It assumes that a connection to the
AuthServer has already been established.  Possible values for SERVICE
are

    &AFS::KA_TICKET_GRANTING_SERVICE
    &AFS::KA_MAINTENANCE_SERVICE

It calls the AFS system library function 'ka_Authenticate'

=item B<$ok = $kas-E<gt>ChangePassword(UNAME, UINST, OKEY, NKEY);>

Changes the password for the user entry UNAME.UINST in the
Authentication Database to NKEY. OKEY and NKEY must be instances of
AFS::KTC_EKEY.  OEKY is never used, so you can put in any key
(randomkey).  It calls the AFS system library function
'ka_ChangePassword'.

=item B<$ok = $kas-E<gt>create(UNAME, UINST, NKEY);>

=item B<$ok = $kas-E<gt>KAM_CreateUser(UNAME, UINST, NKEY);>

Adds the user entry UNAME.UINST to the Authentication Database and sets
its password key to NKEY.  NKEY must be an instance of AFS::KTC_EKEY.
This call requires a connection encrypted with an AdminTicket.  It calls
the AFS system library function 'KAM_CreateUser'.

=item B<$entry = $kas-E<gt>debug;>

=item B<$entry = $kas-E<gt>KAM_Debug(VERSION);>

Returns information about the Authentication Database, the key cache,
and the state of the AuthServer.  The return value is a reference to a
hash table containing the values from the C structure C<ka_debugInfo>.
Possible values for VERSION are

   &AFS::KAMAJORVERSION

It calls the AFS system library function'KAM_Debug'.

=item B<$ok = $kas-E<gt>delete(UNAME, UINST);>

=item B<$ok = $kas-E<gt>KAM_DeleteUser(UNAME, UINST);>

Removes the user entry UNAME.UINST from the Authentication Database. It
requires a connection encrypted with an AdminTicket.
It calls the AFS system library function 'KAM_DeleteUser'.

=item B<$entry = $kas-E<gt>getentry(UNAME, UINST);>

=item B<$entry = $kas-E<gt>KAM_Getentry(UNAME, UINST);>

Returns information from the Authentication Database entry for the
user entry UNAME.UINST.  The return value is a reference to a hash
table containing the values from the C structure C<kaentryinfo>.  The
hash table has the following keys

    change_password_time    flags                  keyCheckSum
    key_version             max_ticket_lifetime    minor_version
    misc_auth_bytes         modification_time      modification_user
    user_expiration

It calls the AFS system library function 'KAM_GetEntry'.

=item B<($num_admins, $kasstats, $kadstats) = $kas-E<gt>getstats;>

=item B<($num_admins, $kasstats, $kadstats) = $kas-E<gt>KAM_GetStats(VERSION);>

Returns statistics about the AuthServer and its database. If VERSION
does not match that used by the server, the call returns an error
code. The return values are references to the hash tables containing
the values from the C structures C<kasstats> and C<kadstats>.  This
call requires a connection encrypted with an AdminTicket.  Possible
values for VERSION are

   &AFS::KAMAJORVERSION

It calls the AFS system library function 'KAM_Getstats'.

=item B<$token = $kas-E<gt>GetToken(SNAME, SINST, STIME, ETIME, AUTH_TOKEN [, AUTH_CELL]);>

Return a token for the specified service SNAME.SINST.  The desired
ticket lifetime is specified by STIME and ETIME (given in 5 minute
intervals). AUTH_TOKEN must be a ticket for the ticket­granting
service (an instance of AFS::KTC_TOKEN) in the cell AUTH_CELL (default
null). It assumes that a connection to the AuthServer has already been
established.  It calls the AFS system library function 'ka_GetToken'.

=item B<($name, $inst) = $kas-E<gt>listentry(PREV, INDX, COUNT);>

=item B<($name, $inst) = $kas-E<gt>KAM_ListEntry(PREV, INDX, COUNT);>

Returns the name and instance of an entry in the database.  It provides
a way to step through all the entries in the database. The first call
should be made with previous index PREV set to zero. The method updates
COUNT, which is an estimate of the number of entries remaining to be
returned, and INDX, which should be passed in as previous index on the
next call. A negative COUNT or a non­zero return code indicates that an
error occurred.  A zero INDX means there were no more entries. A zero
COUNT means the last entry has been returned. This call requires a
connection encrypted with an AdminTicket.  It calls the AFS system
library function 'KAM_ListEntry'.

=item B<$rkey = $kas-E<gt>randomkey;>

=item B<$rkey = $kas-E<gt>KAM_GetRandomKey;>

Returns a random DES key (an instance of AFS::KTC_EKEY) and is preferred
over a calling routine just inventing a key.  It calls the AFS system
library function 'KAM_GetRandomKey'.

=item B<$ok = $kas-E<gt>setpassword(UNAME, UINST, KVNO, NKEY);>

=item B<$ok = $kas-E<gt>KAM_SetPassword(UNAME, UINST, KVNO, NKEY);>

Sets the key NKEY and key version number KVNO of the user entry
UNAME.UINST to the given values. NKEY must be an instance of
AFS::KTC_EKEY.  This call requires a connection encrypted with an
AdminTicket.  It calls the AFS system library function
'KAM_SetPassword'.

=item B<$ok = $kas-E<gt>setfields(UNAME, UINST, FLAGS, EXPIRE, LIFETIME, MAXASSOC, PACKED);>

=item B<$ok = $kas-E<gt>KAM_SetFields(UNAME, UINST, FLAGS, EXPIRE, LIFETIME, MAXASSOC, PACKED);>

This function alters the miscellaneous parameters associated with the
user entry UNAME.UINST. The FLAGS argument can be set to the following values

   &AFS::KAFNORMAL    regular user
   &AFS::KAFADMIN     an administrator
   &AFS::KAFNOTGS     not allow principal to get or use TGT
   &AFS::KAFNOSEAL    not allow principal as server in GetTicket
   &AFS::KAFNOCPW     not allow principal to change its own key
   &AFS::KAFNEWASSOC  allow user to create associates

EXPIRE is the epoch time after which attempts to authenticate as this user
will fail. The LIFETIME can be set to limit the lifetime of an
authentication ticket created for a user (unit is secs). MAXASSOC
defaults to -1.  PACKED is an array of four bytes. It contains

  PACKED[0]: password lifetime; range must be [0..254] days; 0 = infinity
  PACKED[1]: password reuse; [1 = yes], [2 = no], [0 = not changed]
  PACKED[2]: numb of failed logins; (fail - 1) tries are allowed; 0 = infinity
  PACKED[3]: lock time, must be set in units of 8.5 minutes; 0 = infinity

This call requires a connection encrypted with an AdminTicket.  It
calls the AFS system library function 'KAM_SetFields'.

=back

=head1 CURRENT AUTHOR

Norbert E. Gruener E<lt>nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.deE<gt>

=head1 AUTHOR EMERITUS

Roland Schemers E<lt>schemers@slapshot.stanford.eduE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

 Copyright (c) 2001-2010 Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>.
 All rights reserved.

 Copyright (c) 1994 Board of Trustees, Leland Stanford Jr. University.
 All rights reserved.

Most of the explanations in this document are taken from the original
AFS documentation.

 AFS-3 Programmer's Reference:
 Authentication Server Interface
 Edward R. Zayas
 Copyright (c) 1991 Transarc Corporation.
 All rights reserved.

 IBM AFS Administration Reference
 Copyright (c) IBM Corporation 2000.
 All rights reserved.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=over 6

=item The original module is covered by the following copyright:

Copyright (c) 1994 Board of Trustees, Leland Stanford Jr. University

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
advertising materials, and other materials related to such
distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
by Stanford University.  The name of the University may not be used
to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=back

=head1 DOCUMENT VERSION

Revision $Rev: 980 $
