#------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# RCS-Id: "@(#)$RCS-Id: pod/v2/afsperlktck.pod 2e2ca60 Tue Apr 15 13:04:20 2014 +0200 Norbert E Gruener$"
#
# © 2001-2014 Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>
#
# This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
# the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

B<AFS::KTC_EKEY> - Class to handle the B<AFS structure ktc_encryptionkey>

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use AFS::KTC_EKEY;
  use AFS::Cell qw(localcell);

  my $key = AFS::KTC_EKEY->ReadPassword('Password:');
  print 'KEY = ', $key->string, " \n";

  my $string = AFS::KTC_EKEY->UserReadPassword('Password:');
  $key = AFS::KTC_EKEY->StringToKey($string, localcell);
  print 'KEY = ', $key->string, " \n";

  $key = AFS::KTC_EKEY->des_string_to_key('aaa');
  print 'KEY = ', $key->string, " \n";

  undef $key;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class provides methods to handle the B<AFS structure ktc_encryptionkey>.
This structure represents an encryption key which is used in the I<Kernel
Token Cache> (KTC). The KTC is part of the Cache Manager.  It is used to
create B<ktc_encryptionkey> instances.

=head1 COMPATIBILITY

B<This release does NOT support any features and interfaces
from version 1.>

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<CONSTRUCTOR>

=item S< >

=item B<$key = AFS::KTC_EKEY-E<gt>des_string_to_key(STRING);>

The STRING string is converted to a DES encryption key and this key is
returned as an AFS::KTC_EKEY object.  It calls the AFS system library
function 'des_string_to_key'.

=item B<$key = AFS::KTC_EKEY-E<gt>ReadPassword(PROMPT [, VERIFY [, CELL]]);>

Prints out a PROMPT and reads a string from the terminal, turning off
echoing.  If VERIFY (default 0) is set to 1 it requests that the string
be entered again and the two strings are compared.  CELL defaults to
NULL. The string is then converted to a DES encryption key and the
encryption key is returned as an AFS::KTC_EKEY object.  It calls the AFS
system library function 'ka_ReadPassword'.

=item B<$key = AFS::KTC_EKEY-E<gt>StringToKey(PASSWD, CELL);>

The PASSWD string is converted to a DES encryption key and this key is
returned as an AFS::KTC_EKEY object.  It calls the AFS system library
function 'ka_StringToKey'.

=item B<CLASS METHODS>

=item S< >

=item B<$string = AFS::KTC_EKEY-E<gt>UserReadPassword(PROMPT [, REASON]);>

Prints out a PROMPT and reads a string from the terminal, turning off
echoing.  This string is returned.  On error the error message is
returned in REASON.  It calls the AFS system library function
'ka_UserReadPassword'.

=item B<ATTRIBUTES ACCESS>

=item S< >

=item B<$key-E<gt>string;>

Returns the whole encryption key as a string.

=back

=head1 CURRENT AUTHOR

Norbert E. Gruener E<lt>nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.deE<gt>

=head1 AUTHOR EMERITUS

Roland Schemers E<lt>schemers@slapshot.stanford.eduE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

 Copyright (c) 2001-2010 Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>.
 All rights reserved.

 Copyright (c) 1994 Board of Trustees, Leland Stanford Jr. University.
 All rights reserved.

Most of the explanations in this document are taken from the original
AFS documentation.

 AFS-3 Programmer's Reference:
 Authentication Server Interface
 Edward R. Zayas
 Copyright (c) 1991 Transarc Corporation.
 All rights reserved.

 IBM AFS Administration Reference
 Copyright (c) IBM Corporation 2000.
 All rights reserved.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=over 6

=item The original module is covered by the following copyright:

Copyright (c) 1994 Board of Trustees, Leland Stanford Jr. University

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
advertising materials, and other materials related to such
distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
by Stanford University.  The name of the University may not be used
to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=back

=head1 DOCUMENT VERSION

Revision $Rev: 1059 $
