#------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# RCS-Id: "@(#)$RCS-Id: pod/v2/afsperlvldb.pod 2e2ca60 Tue Apr 15 13:04:20 2014 +0200 Norbert E Gruener$"
#
# © 2005-2014 Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>
# © 2003-2004 Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu> and
#             Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>
#
# This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
# the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

B<AFS::VLDB> - Class to communicate with the B<AFS Volume Location Server>

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use AFS::VLDB;

  my $vldb = AFS::VLDB->new(1, 120, 1);
  $vol->DESTROY;

  $vldb = AFS::VLDB->new;
  my $ok = $vldb->addsite('server2', 'vicepa', 'volume');
  $ok = $vldb->remsite('server1', '/vicepa', 'volume');

  $ok = $vos->changeloc('volume', 'server2', '/vicepb');

  $ok = $vldb->removeaddr('192.168.18.25');

  my ($succ, $fail) = $vldb->delentry(['volume', 'volume.projects']);
  ($succ, $fail) = $vldb->delentry('volume');
  ($succ, $fail) = $vldb->delgroups('home', 'server', '/vicepa', 1);

  my @addrlist = $vldb->listaddrs('', '', 0, 1);

  my $vldblist = $vldb->listvldb('server1', '/vicepa');
  my $vldblist = $vldb->listvldbentry('root.afs');

  $ok = $vldb->lock('volume');
  $ok = $vldb->unlock('volume');
  $ok = $vldb->unlockvldb('server1', '/vicepa');

  $ok = $vldb->syncserv('server1', '/vicepa');
  $ok = $vldb->syncvldb('server1', '/vicepa');
  $ok = $vldb->syncvldbentry('volume');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class is used to communicate with the B<AFS Volume Location
Server> in order to maintain and to administer the Volume Location
Database (VLDB) maintained by the Volume Location Server.  The VLDB is
used to allow AFS application programs to discover the location of any
volume within its cell, along with select information about the nature
and state of that volume.  This class provides methods to lookup for
volumes or to lock/unlock them in the DB.  It is used to remove and to
list DB entries, and to synchronize the VLDB against the AFS
partitions.

Before you can access any VLDB records you must establish a connection
to the Volume Location Server.  This is done by the constructor method
I<new> which returns a VLDB object.  A VLDB object is essentially a
handle to talk to the Volume Location Server in a given cell.  Such a
VLDB object is required before any of the other VLDB instance methods
can be called.

=head1 COMPATIBILITY

There was no version 1 implementation and hence there are no version
conflicts :-)

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<CONSTRUCTOR>

=item S< >

=item B<$vldb = AFS::VLDB-E<gt>new([VERBOSE [, TIMEOUT [, NOAUTH [, LOCALAUTH [, CELL [, ENCRYPT]]]]]);>

Creates a new object of the class AFS::VLDB.  An AFS::VLDB object is
essentially a handle to talk to the Volume Location Server.
Internally an AFS::VLDB object is a pointer to a ubik_client
structure, although this may change and the value returned from
AFS::VLDB::new should always be treaded as an opaque handle.

Set VERBOSE (default 0) to 1 to produce on the standard output stream
a detailed trace of the method's execution.  TIMEOUT is the time of
inactivity in seconds before the connection to the VLDB server is
declared dead (default 90 seconds).  Set LOCALAUTH (default 0) to 1
only when issuing a command on a server machine.  If NOAUTH is 1
(default 0) it establishes an unauthenticated connection to the
server, in which the servers treat the issuer as an unprivileged user.
CELL (default NULL) specifies the cell in which to run the
command. Set ENCRYPT to 1 (default 0) to encrypt the connection to the
VLDB server.

=item B<DESTRUCTOR>

=item S< >

=item B<$vldb-E<gt>DESTROY;>

Destroys the ubik connection to the Volume Location Server and frees the
ubik_client structure.


=item B<INSTANCE METHODS>

=item S< >

=item B<$ok = $vldb-E<gt>addsite(SERVER, PARTITION, VOLUME [, ROVOL, VALID]);>

Defines a new read-only site specified by the SERVER and PARTITION
arguments, in the Volume Location Database (VLDB) entry of the
read/write VOLUME (volume name or volume ID number).
ROVOL specifies either the complete name or volume ID number of the readonly
volume. This will only be honored if the source read/write volume does not
already have a readonly volume ID associated with it. If the source
read/write volume already has a readonly volume ID, the specified ID will
be ignored, and a warning will be printed.
If this is not specified and the source read/write volume does not already
have a readonly volume ID, a volume ID for the readonly volume will be
allocated for it when the B<vos->release> method is run.
The automatically allocated readonly volume IDs should be fine for almost
all cases, so you should almost never need to specify this argument. This
argument is supported when the AFS Perl modules are linked with the
OpenAFS system libraries v1.4.12 or later.
The VALID flag marks the site as up-to-date in the VLDB. You should only
do this if the new site already has a current readonly replica of the
volume, but for some reason it is not in the VLDB as a replica site.
This is useful when an existing read-only volume is dumped and restored
with the B<-readonly> flag at the new site. This argument is supported
when the AFS Perl modules are linked with the OpenAFS system libraries
v1.4.7 or later.

It calls the AFS system library function I<UV_AddSite> or
I<UV_AddSite2> (OpenAFS v.1.4.12 or later).

=item B<$ok = $vldb-E<gt>changeloc(VOLUME, SERVER, PARTITION);>

Changes the location of the read/write VOLUME (volume name or volume
ID number) in the VLDB to SERVER and PARTITION.  This method is only
available with OpenAFS.  It calls the AFS system library function
I<UV_ChangeLocation>.

=item B<($succ, $fail) = $vldb-E<gt>delentry(VOLUME [, NOEXECUTE]);>

=item B<($succ, $fail) = $vldb-E<gt>delentry(\@VOLUME [, NOEXECUTE]);>

Removes the VLDB entry for each specified VOLUME.  VOLUME is either a
scalar value or a reference to an array of volume names or of volume
ids.  If you set NOEXECUTE to 1 (default 0) then the volume name is
just printed but NOT deleted.  It returns the number of successfully
deleted volumes and the number of failed volumes.  It calls the
AFS system library function I<VL_DeleteEntry>.

B<Cautions>

Do not use this method to remove a volume in normal circumstances; it
does not remove a volume from the file server machine, and so is
likely to make the VLDB inconsistent with state of the volumes on
server machines. Use the AFS::VOS remove method to remove both the
volume and its VLDB entry.

=item B<($succ, $fail) = $vldb-E<gt>delgroups(PREFIX, SERVER, PARTITION [, NOEXECUTE]);>

Removes the VLDB entries for groups of volumes.  PREFIX specifies a
certain character string for the beginning of the volume name. SERVER
specifies the file server machine and PARTITION specifies the
partition name where the volumes where sitting.  If you specify an
empty string for either PREFIX, SERVER, or PARTITION it is considered
as a wild card option for this argument.  If you set NOEXECUTE to 1
(default 0) then the volume name is just printed but NOT deleted.  It
returns the number of successfully deleted volumes and the number of
failed volumes.  It calls the AFS system library function
I<VL_DeleteEntry>.

B<Cautions>

Do not use this method to remove a volume in normal circumstances; it
does not remove a volume from the file server machine, and so is
likely to make the VLDB inconsistent with state of the volumes on
server machines. Use the AFS::VOS remove method to remove both the
volume and its VLDB entry.

=item B<@addrlist = $vldb-E<gt>listaddrs([HOST [, UUID [, NORESOLVE [, PRINTUUID]]]]);>

Returns all server entries from the VLDB.  An entry is created as the
File Server initializes and registers the contents of its local
C<sysid> file in the VLDB.  The return value is an array of hashes.
If you specify HOST or UUID only the entry for this HOST or UUID is
returned.  If you set NORESOLVE (default 0) to 1, only the IP address
is returned.  If you set PRINTUUID (default 0) to 1, the UUID (AFS'
internal host representation) for each server is also returned.

It calls the AFS system library function I<VL_GetAddrs> or
I<VL_GetAddrsU>.

B<Important Hint>

In version 2.4.1 the hash key names for "NAME" and "IP" have changed.
The new names are now "NAME-x" and "IP-x" where "x" is {1,2,3,...}.

You can find an example how to print the entire content of
returned array of hashes in the C<examples/v2/vldb> directory.

=item B<$vldblist = $vldb-E<gt>listvldb([SERVER [, PARTITION [, LOCK]]]);>

Returns information from the Volume Location Database (VLDB) entry for
each volume specified.  The return value is a reference to a hash
table containing the values from the C structure C<nvldbentry>.  The
actual information returned depends on the combination of arguments
supplied when the method is applied. Combine the arguments as
indicated:

 * Every entry in the VLDB: provide no arguments.

 * Every VLDB entry that mentions a certain file server
   machine as the site for a volume: specify the SERVER argument.

 * Every VLDB entry that mentions a certain partition on any
   file server machine as the site for a volume: specify the
   PARTITION argument.

 * Every VLDB entry that mentions a certain partition on a
   certain file server machine as the site for a volume:
   combine the SERVER and PARTITION arguments.

If you set LOCK (default 0) to 1 it returns only locked VLDB
entries. This flag can be combined with the SERVER argument, the
PARTITION argument, or both.

It calls the AFS system library function I<VolumeInfoCmd>.

You can find an example how to print the entire content of the
returned hash reference in the C<examples/v2/vldb> directory.

=item B<$vldblist = $vldb-E<gt>listvldbentry(VOLUME);>

Returns information from the Volume Location Database (VLDB) entry for
the specified VOLUME (volume name or volume ID number).  The return
value is a reference to a hash table containing the values from the C
structure C<nvldbentry>.

It calls the AFS system library function I<VolumeInfoCmd>.

You can find an example how to print the entire content of the
returned hash reference in the C<examples/v2/vldb> directory.

=item B<$ok = $vldb-E<gt>lock(VOLUME);>

Locks the VLDB entry for VOLUME (volume name or volume ID number),
blocking any operation that requires a write to that entry. The lock
applies to all of the volume versions associated with the entry, not
just the one specified.  It calls the AFS system library function
I<VL_SetLock>.

=item B<$ok = $vldb-E<gt>removeaddr(IP);>

Removes from the VLDB the server entry that includes the address
specified by the IP argument.  It calls the AFS system library
function I<VL_ChangeAddr>.

=item B<$ok = $vldb-E<gt>remsite(SERVER, PARTITION, VOLUME);>

Removes the read-only replication site specified by the SERVER and
PARTITION arguments from the Volume Location Database (VLDB) entry for
the indicated read/write VOLUME.

This method is useful for removing read-only sites that were
mistakenly created with the I<addsite> method, before the volume was
actually released. If a read-only copy already exists at the site, it
is not affected. However, if this read-only site was the last site
housing any version of the volume, then the entire VLDB entry is
removed, even if a copy of the read-only version still actually exists
at the site.It calls the AFS system library function I<UV_RemoveSite>.

=item B<$ok = $vldb-E<gt>syncserv(SERVER [, PARTITION]);>

Verifies that each volume mentioned in a VLDB entry actually exists at
the site indicated in the entry. It checks all VLDB entries that
mention a read/write, read-only, or backup site either on any
partition on the file server machine specified by the SERVER argument,
or on the one partition specified by the SERVER and PARTITION
arguments.
It calls the AFS system library function I<UV_SyncServer>.

=item B<$ok = $vldb-E<gt>syncvldb(SERVER [, PARTITION]);>

Verifies that the status of the volumes housed either on all
partitions on the file server machine specified by the SERVER
argument, or on the single partition specified by the SERVER and
PARTITION arguments, is recorded correctly in the VLDB.  It calls the
AFS system library function I<UV_SyncVolume>.

=item B<$ok = $vldb-E<gt>syncvldbentry(VOLUME);>

Verifies that the status of the VOLUME is recorded correctly in the
VLDB.  It calls the AFS system library function I<UV_SyncVolume>.

=item B<$ok = $vldb-E<gt>unlock(VOLUME);>

Releases the lock on the VLDB entry for the specified VOLUME (volume
name or volume ID number).  It calls the AFS system library function
I<UV_LockRelease>.

=item B<$ok = $vldb-E<gt>unlockvldb([SERVER [, PARTITION]]);>

Releases the lock on the VLDB entries
indicated by the combination of arguments provided:

  * To unlock all entries in the VLDB, provide no arguments.

  * To unlock all entries that mention a file server machine
    in a site definition, provide its name with the SERVER
    argument.

  * To unlock all entries that mention a partition on any
    file server machine in a site definition, provide the
    partition name with the PARTITION argument.

  * To unlock all entries that mention a specific site,
    provide both the SERVER and PARTITION arguments.

It calls the AFS system library function I<VL_ReleaseLock>.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

The code and documentation for this class were contributed by Stanford
Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.  This
documentation were written by

=over

=item Alf Wachsmann E<lt>alfw@slac.stanford.eduE<gt>, and

=item Norbert E. Gruener E<lt>nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.deE<gt>

=item S< >

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

 Copyright (c) 2005-2011 Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>
 Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu> and
                         Norbert E. Gruener <nog@MPA-Garching.MPG.de>
 All rights reserved.

Most of the explanations in this document are taken from the original
AFS documentation.

 AFS-3 Programmer's Reference:
 Volume Server/Volume Location Server Interface
 Edward R. Zayas
 Copyright (c) 1991 Transarc Corporation.
 All rights reserved.

 IBM AFS Administration Reference
 Copyright (c) IBM Corporation 2000.
 All rights reserved.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 DOCUMENT VERSION

Revision $Rev: 1078 $
