# just to make PodWeaver happy at the moment
package Language::Expr::Manual::Syntax;

# DATE
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Description of the Language::Expr language

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Language::Expr::Manual::Syntax - Description of the Language::Expr language

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.29 of Language::Expr::Manual::Syntax (from Perl distribution Language-Expr), released on 2016-07-03.

=head1 OVERVIEW

Language::Expr language is very simple. It has just enough features to
support mathematical/logical/string operations, arrays, hashes,
variables, and function calls.

Language::Expr is (intentionally) not Turing-complete (lacks
assignment and loops).

Language::Expr is a lot like Perl. Differences from Perl, if any, are given
after each section.

It should be trivial to implement an interpreter or code generator
from the parser. In fact, Language::Expr is meant to be easily
convertible to Perl, PHP, and Javascript (among others like Python and
Ruby).

=head1 LITERALS

=head2 Undefined value

 undef

=head2 Boolean

 true
 false

Differences from Perl: Perl doesn't support native booleans, but there are
modules like L<boolean> which practically make Perl behaves like it does.

=head2 Number

 1
 -2.3
 inf
 nan
 0x1f    # hexadecimal, = 31 in decimal
 0o17    # octal, = 15 in decimal
 0b100   # binary, = 4 in decimal

Differences from Perl: octal literals in Expr are written using the less
error-prone 0o123 syntax, which is also adopted by Python.

=head2 String

Single-quoted strings, e.g. 'single quoted'. Supported escape
sequences:

 \'    literal single quote
 \\    literal backslash

Double-quoted strings, e.g. "double quoted". Supported escape
sequences:

 \'    literal single quote
 \"    literal double quote
 \\    literal backslash
 \$    prevent variable interpolation
 \t    tab
 \n    newline
 \r    linefeed
 \f    formfeed
 \b    backspace
 \a    bell
 \e    escape

 \0 or \03 or \033    octal char
 \x7 or \x7B          hex char
 \x{263a}             wide hex char

Double-quoted strings will also interpolate variables, e.g.:

 "I have $num apples"
 "This is Foo::Bar version ${perl:/Foo/Bar/VERSION}"

Differences from Perl: Perl supports a few other escape sequences, but they are
not commonly found in other scripting languages (e.g.: named Unicode character
or the \l, \L, et al), so they are not included.

=head2 Array

 []
 [1, 2, "str"]

Differences from Perl: dangling comma at the end is not allowed in Expr.

=head2 Hash

 {}
 {a => 1, "b c" => 2+3}

Differences from Perl: in Expr you must always use "=>" to separate key and
value, not comma. Dangling comma at the end is not allowed.

=head1 OPERATORS

Many operators are taken from Perl, along with their precedence levels
and associativity, but here are the differences:

=over 4

=item * No assigment operators.

Because assignment is deliberately not supported.

=item * No smart-match "~~" operator or the other more esoteric or Perl-specific operators.

These include Perl's "..", "...", "->", etc.

=item * Currently no "and", "or", "not" operators.

Use &&, ||, ! instead. Perl supports an extra, low-precedence set of logical
operators mostly to separate statements, which we do not have anyway.

=item * "xor" becomes "^^" (to be consistent with "^" as bitwise-xor).

=item * Hash value is accessed using [] instead of {}, and barewords (e.g. $hash[key] instead of $hash["key"]) are not allowed.

Which, BTW, is also the way it is done in Python, Ruby, and PHP.

=item * Comparison operators can be chained (except <=> and cmp).

Example:

 1 < 2 < 3       # true
 2 == (1+1) != 2 # false

=back

Below is list of supported operators, ordered from lowest precedence,
along with their associativity.

 left     =>
 left     || // ^^
 right    ?:
 left     &&
 left     | ^
 left     &
 left     == != <=> cmp eq ne < > <= >= ge gt le lt
 nonassoc <=> cmp
 left     << >>
 left     + - .
 left     * / % x
 right    ! ~ unary+ unary-
 right    **
 left     subscript (hash[s], array[i])
 left     term (variable, str/num literals, (paren), func())

=head2 Pair

 left     =>

=head2 Logical or, defined-or, logical xor

 left     || // ^^

=head2 Ternary operator

 right    ?:

=head2 Logical and

 left     &&

=head2 Bitwise or, bitwise xor

 left     | ^

=head2 Bitwise and

 left     &

=head2 Comparison operators

 left     == != <=> cmp eq ne < > <= >= ge gt le lt

=head2 Tri-valued comparison

 nonassoc <=> cmp

=head2 Bitwise shift left & right

 left     << >>

=head2 Numeric addition, subtraction, string concatenation

 left     + - .

=head2 Numeric multiplication, division, modulus, string repetition

 left     * / % x

=head2 Logical not, bitwise not, unary plus, unary minus (numeric negation)

 right    ! ~ unary+ unary-

=head2 Numeric power

 right    **

=head2 Hash and array subscript

 left     subscript (hash[s], array[i])

=head2 Term

 left     term (variable, str/num literals, (paren), func())

=head1 VARIABLES

There are two syntax for variables:

 $alphanum123 (including $_)
 $package::separated::var

and:

 ${anything goes except closing curly brace}

Differences from Perl: In Expr there is just $scalar, no @array or %hash or
others. There are no special variables with funny names ($., $$, etc), but if
they are enclosed with curly braces they are allowed (e.g. ${.},
${name/contains/slashes}). In fact, the curly braces syntax allows the
compiler/interpreter a greater freedom of defining the namespace scheme aside
from the Perl-like double-colon syntax, e.g.:

 # Unix-path-like
 ${../foo}
 ${/foo/bar/baz}

 # volume:path (or URL-like)
 ${schema:/foo/bar/baz}
 ${data:../../baz}

=head1 FUNCTIONS

Examples:

 rand()
 length("foo")

Differences from Perl: parentheses are required in Expr.

The language define just a few functions:

=head2 map({ EXPR }, ARRAY) -> RESULT_ARRAY

This is similar to Perl's map() (but notice the required parentheses), it will
form a new array composed from the result of EXPR. EXPR will be evaluated for
each element of ARRAY (stored in B<$_>). The original value of $_ will be
restored after EXPR completes.

=head2 grep({ EXPR }, ARRAY) -> RESULT_ARRAY

This is similar to Perl's grep() (but notice the required parentheses), it will
form a new array composed from the elements of ARRAY when EXPR evaluates to true
(like in Perl, empty string '', the number 0, boolean C<false>, C<undef> are
considered false). EXPR will be evaluated for each element of ARRAY (stored in
B<$_>). The original value of $_ will be restored after EXPR completes.

=head2 usort({ EXPR }, ARRAY) -> RESULT_ARRAY

This is similar to Perl's sort() (but notice the required parentheses), it will
return the ARRAY sorted using comparison in EXPR. EXPR will be evaluated for
each element of ARRAY (B<$a> and B<$b> will be set with two values to be
compared). The original value of B<$a> and B<$b> will be restored after EXPR
completes.

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Language-Expr>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/sharyanto/perl-Language-Expr>.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Language-Expr>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2016 by perlancar@cpan.org.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
