package MIDI::Drummer::Tiny::Tutorial::Basics;

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

MIDI::Drummer::Tiny::Tutorial::Basics

=head1 VERSION

version 0.6004

=head1 Methods and Techniques

=head2 Counting-in

Four beats in 4/4:

  $d->count_in(1);  # Closed hi-hat for 1 bar

A steady, traditional metronome pulse:

  $d->count_in({ bars => 32, patch => $d->bell });

=head2 Of Rests, Notes, and Accents

Rest for a whole note:

  $d->rest($d->whole);

Add a single quarter-note with both the closed hihat and the bass drum, to the score:

  $d->note($d->quarter, $d->closed_hh, $d->kick);

Add an accented snare to the score:

  my $accent_value = 127;
  $d->accent_note($accent_value, $d->sixteenth, $d->snare);

Do the opposite and add a "ghost note" that is less than the average volume (usually 100), to the score:

  my $accent_value = 50;
  $d->accent_note($accent_value, $d->sixteenth, $d->snare);

=head1 A Flam

A "flam" is a stroke preceded by a grace note. Often this is done with the snare alone, but any part of the kit is fair game.

  $d->flam($d->quarter); # play the snare by default

Play the the hi-tom for the grace-note, then the snare:

  $d->flam($d->eighth, $d->hi_tom);

Again, play the the hi-tom for the grace-note, followed by the low-tom:

  $d->flam($d->sixteenth, $d->hi_tom, $d->low_tom);

=head1 Rolls

A drum roll is a rapid succession of beats, usually on the same drum.

This module does two types: "straight" and "curved" - i.e. flat or with a crescendo.

=head2 Straight

Roll the snare in 32nd notes for an eighth-note duration, with equal volume for each stroke:

  $d->roll($d->eighth, $d->thirtysecond);

Roll the hi-tom in 32nd notes for an quarter-note duration:

  $d->roll($d->quarter, $d->thirtysecond, $d->hi_tom);

=head2 Crescendo

Roll the snare from a volume of 50 up to 127 in a linear fashion:

  $d->crescendo_roll([50, 127], $d->eighth, $d->thirtysecond);

Roll the snare from a volume of 50 up to 127 with a curve (as illustrated in the main module's documentation):

  $d->crescendo_roll([50, 127, 1], $d->eighth, $d->thirtysecond);

Roll the hi-tom from a volume of 127 B<down> to 50:

  $d->crescendo_roll([127, 50], $d->eighth, $d->thirtysecond, $d->hi_tom);

=head1 Changing Attribute Values

A few of the attributes may be reset in the middle of a piece (after object construction).

These are the time signature, beats per minute, MIDI channel, and the volume.

  $d->set_time_sig('5/4');

  $d->set_bpm($d->bpm / 3);

  $d->set_channel;    # reset to channel 9 (the drum channel)
  $d->set_channel(0); # set the channel to something else

  $d->set_volume;      # set to 0 - mute
  $d->set_volume(127); # or any number up to 127

=head1 AUTHOR

Gene Boggs <gene.boggs@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2014-2025 by Gene Boggs.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
