package MIDI::Drummer::Tiny::Tutorial::Quickstart;

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

MIDI::Drummer::Tiny::Tutorial::Quickstart

=head1 VERSION

version 0.5004

=head1 Import the Module

  use MIDI::Drummer::Tiny ();

=head1 Object Instantiation

=head2 Use the defaults

  my $d = MIDI::Drummer::Tiny->new;

=head2 Attribute configuration

  my $d = MIDI::Drummer::Tiny->new(
      file       => 'drums.mid',
      bpm        => 120,
      volume     => 120,
      signature  => '5/4', # OR:
      #beats     => 5,
      #divisions => 4,
      bars       => 8,
      reverb     => 0,
      kick       => 36, # Override default patch
      snare      => 40, # "
      verbose    => 1,
  );

=head1 Drum Set Components

=head2 Kick and snare-like things

acoustic_bass, electric_bass ("kick")

acoustic_snare, electric_snare, side_stick, clap

=head2 Cymbals

open_hh, closed_hh, pedal_hh

crash1, crash2, splash, china

ride1, ride2, ride_bell

=head2 Toms

hi_tom, hi_mid_tom, low_mid_tom, low_tom, hi_floor_tom, low_floor_tom

=head2 Miscellaneous

click, bell (metronome), tambourine, cowbell, vibraslap, etc.

=head1 Handy Duration Aliases

whole, triplet_whole, dotted_whole, double_dotted_whole

half, triplet_half, dotted_half, double_dotted_half

quarter, triplet_quarter, dotted_quarter, double_dotted_quarter

eighth, triplet_eighth, dotted_eighth, double_dotted_eighth

etc. up to 128th notes

=head1 Basic Beats

=head2 Rock

  $d->metronome44;
  # OR
  $d->metronome44($d->bars, 1);

That's it!

=head2 Swing

  $d->metronome44swing;

That's it!

=head2 Viennese Waltz

  for my $n (1 .. $d->bars) {
      $d->note($d->quarter, $d->ride1, $d->kick);
      $d->note($d->quarter, $d->ride1, $d->snare);
      $d->note($d->quarter, $d->ride1, $d->snare);
  }

In 3/4 time

=head2 Disco

  for my $n ( 0 .. $d->bars - 1 ) {
      $d->note( $d->sixteenth, $d->closed_hh, $d->kick );
      $d->note( $d->sixteenth, $d->closed_hh );
      $d->note( $d->sixteenth, $d->closed_hh );
      $d->note( $d->sixteenth, $d->open_hh );
      $d->note( $d->sixteenth, $d->pedal_hh, $d->kick, $d->snare );
      $d->note( $d->sixteenth, $d->closed_hh );
      $d->note( $d->sixteenth, $d->closed_hh );
      $d->note( $d->sixteenth, $d->closed_hh );
  }

This beat is extra-cheesy.

=head1 And Finally...

Either play the score with the built-in L<timidity++|https://timidity.sourceforge.net/|> functionality:

  $d->play_with_timidity;

Or write-out the score to a MIDI file:

  $d->write;

And then play the score with timidity:

  > timidity drums.mid

You can also use the excellent, cross platform program, L<VLC|https://www.videolan.org/vlc/|>.

You can also convert the MIDI file into MP3, or whatever format you like.

Easy!

=head1 AUTHOR

Gene Boggs <gene@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2014-2025 by Gene Boggs.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
