=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

GD::SecurityImage::AC - A drop-in replacement for Authen::Captcha.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use GD::SecurityImage::AC;

  # create a new object
  my $captcha = Authen::Captcha->new();

  # set the data_folder. contains flatfile db to maintain state
  $captcha->data_folder('/some/folder');

  # set directory to hold publicly accessable images
  $captcha->output_folder('/some/http/folder');

  # Alternatively, any of the methods to set variables may also be
  # used directly in the constructor

  my $captcha = Authen::Captcha->new(
    data_folder   => '/some/folder',
    output_folder => '/some/http/folder',
    );

  # create a captcha. Image filename is "$md5sum.png"
  my $md5sum = $captcha->generate_code($number_of_characters);

  # check for a valid submitted captcha
  #   $code is the submitted letter combination guess from the user
  #   $md5sum is the submitted md5sum from the user (that we gave them)
  my $results = $captcha->check_code($code,$md5sum);
  # $results will be one of:
  #          1 : Passed
  #          0 : Code not checked (file error)
  #         -1 : Failed: code expired
  #         -2 : Failed: invalid code (not in database)
  #         -3 : Failed: invalid code (code does not match crypt)
  ##############

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is a drop-in GD::SecurityImage replacement for Authen::Captcha. 
Module is mostly compatible with Authen::Captcha. You can just replace

   use Authen::Captcha;

line in your programs with

   use GD::SecurityImage::AC;

to enable GD::SecurityImage interface. Alternatively, you can use

   use GD::SecurityImage backend => 'AC';

Regular GD::SecurityImage interface is supported with an extra method: 
C<gdsi>. Also see the C<CAVEATS> section for incompatibilities.

This module uses: C<GD::SecurityImage>, C<Digest::MD5>, C<File::Spec> and 
C<Fcntl> modules.

If you are writing a captcha handler from scratch, this module is 
B<not recommended>. You must use C<GD::SecurityImage> directly. This 
module can be used for older Authen::Captcha applications only. And 
features are (and will be) limited with Authen::Captcha capabilities.

B<Do not use this module if you have any doubt>.

=head1 METHODS

See L<Authen::Captcha> for the methods and usage.

=head2 gdsi

This method is used to set L<GD::SecurityImage> parameters. Three
methods are supported: C<new>, C<create> and C<particle>. Parameter
types and names are identical to GD::SecurityImage parameters:

   $captcha->gdsi(new      => {name => value},
                  create   => [param1, param2, ...],
                  particle => [param1, param2]);

C<new> is a hashref while the other two are arrayrefs. 
See L<GD::SecurityImage> for information about these parameters.

C<gdsi> method must be called just after creating the object:

   my $captcha = Authen::Captcha->new;
   $captcha->gdsi(
      new => {
               width    => 350,
               height   => 100,
               lines    => 10,
               font     => "/absolute/path/to/your.ttf",
               scramble => 1,
               ptsize   => 24,
      },
      create   => [ttf => 'box', '#80C0F0', '#0F644B'],
      particle => [115, 250],
   );

If you don't use this method, the captcha image will be generated with
default options.

C<gdsi> returns the object itself. So, you can create your object like this:

   my $captcha = Authen::Captcha->new( ... )->gdsi( ... );

=head1 CAVEATS

=over 4

=item *

width and height parameters are *not* character's width and height,
but they define the image dimensions. 

=item *

No outside images. Captchas are generated with the GD::SecurityImage
interface, not with third party "letter" graphics (but you can use true 
type fonts, see C<gdsi> method). As a side effect, captcha size is not 
(actually "can not be") determined automatically. so, you have to specify 
a width and height value at the beginning.

=item *

Setting C<images_folder> has no effect.

=item *

No background images. Backgrounds are drawn with GD::SecurityImage styles.

=item *

You have to specify a TTF font, if you want to use another font (other than GD
built-in C<GD::Font-E<gt>Giant>).

=item *

Setting C<debug> has no effect. You can still set C<debug>, but it is not used 
inside this module.

=item *

The code is compatible with taint, but only so long as your C<data_folder> and
C<output_folder> paths are not tainted. This is deliberate. If your C<data_folder>
or C<output_folder> paths are tainted, you are probably doing something wrong and
definitely doing something that bears close examination.

=back

=head1 CHANGES


1.12 Sun Sep 27 07:02:00 2020
        => Changed license to MIT
        => Fixed encoding issue in POD
        => Updated build tooling
        => Updated maintainer info
        => Made POD tests optional
        => Added 'use warnings'

1.11 Sun May 02 07:29:00 2008
        => Seperated POD into .pod file
        => Fixed taint compatibility and added documentation note on it
        => Fixed locking
        => Removed pointless AUTOLOAD (and consequent DESTROY) subs
        => Replaced use of 'base' module with direct setting of @Authen::Captcha::ISA 
        => Added build test for taint compatibility
        => Benjamin Franz took over as maintainer

1.10 Sun Feb 19 23:33:56 2006
	=> First release after separation from GD::SecurityImage 
	   distribution.
	=> Fixed a bug in setting attributes in new() and AUTOLOAD().
	=> (Hopefully) fixed a bug related to unlink()ing images.
	   Reported by GribUser.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<GD::SecurityImage>, L<Authen::Captcha>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Burak Gürsoy, E<lt>burakE<64>cpan.orgE<gt>, Benjamin Franz E<lt>snowhareE<64>cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2005-2006 Burak Gürsoy, 2007 Benjamin Franz. All rights reserved.

Some portions of this module adapted from L<Authen::Captcha>. 
L<Authen::Captcha> Copyright 2003 by First Productions, Inc. & Seth Jackson.

=head1 LICENSE

This library is provided "AS IS" without warranty of any kind.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify 
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.8.7 or, 
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
