=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

IO::Interactive::Tiny - is_interactive() without large deps


=head1 VERSION

This document describes IO::Interactive::Tiny version 0.2


=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use IO::Interactive::Tiny;

    if ( IO::Interactive::Tiny::is_interactive() ) {
        print "I probably want text output.";
    }
    else {
        print "I probably want HTML output."; 
    }


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Provides the useful subset of L<IO::Interactive>’s functionality in the form of only having is_interactive().

Also gains ::Tiny-ness by not using L<version>, L<Carp>, or L<Scalar::Util>

=head1 INTERFACE 

Nothing in exported or exportable, that helps keep it '::Tiny'.


=head2 IO::Interactive::Tiny::is_interactive()

Same functionality as L<IO::Interactive:/is_interactive()>.


=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

IO::Interactive::Tiny throws no warnings or errors of its own.


=head1 CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENT

IO::Interactive::Tiny requires no configuration files or environment variables.


=head1 DEPENDENCIES

None.


=head1 INCOMPATIBILITIES

None reported.


=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

No bugs have been reported.

Please report any bugs or feature requests to
C<bug-io-interactive-tiny@rt.cpan.org>, or through the web interface at
L<http://rt.cpan.org>.

=head1 About the '::Tiny' status

All info below is relative to IO::Interactive (v0.0.6).

See L<Acme::Tiny> for information on the ::Tiny suffix.

#3 is really really close:

    [ -- RSS Memory -- ]
      Baseline perl 1204
      IO::Interactive 2464 (+1260)
      IO::Interactive::Tiny 1332 (+128)
    
Even though "time" isn't really a ::Tiny factor, it does improve loading a bit:

   [ -- time -- ]
    Baseline perl
      real  0m0.014s
      user  0m0.004s
      sys   0m0.008s
    
    IO::Interactive
      real  0m0.023s
      user  0m0.013s
      sys   0m0.009s
    
    IO::Interactive::Tiny
      real  0m0.013s
      user  0m0.004s
      sys   0m0.008s
      
Regarding tests: t/01.is_interactive.t i the same as t/is_interactive.t in IO::Interactive

=head1 AUTHOR

Daniel Muey  C<< <http://drmuey.com/cpan_contact.pl> >>


=head1 LICENCE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2011, Daniel Muey C<< <http://drmuey.com/cpan_contact.pl> >>. All rights reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself. See L<perlartistic>.


=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

BECAUSE THIS SOFTWARE IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE SOFTWARE, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE SOFTWARE "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE
ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE IS WITH
YOU. SHOULD THE SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL
NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR, OR CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE SOFTWARE AS PERMITTED BY THE ABOVE LICENCE, BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE
THE SOFTWARE (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGES.

