=head1 NAME

Template::DBI - DBI plugin for the Template Toolkit

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    $ perldoc Template::Plugin::DBI

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Template-DBI distribution contains the DBI plugin for the Template
Toolkit.  At some point in the future it is likely to contain other
DBI-related plugins and extension modules for the Template Toolkit.

The DBI plugin was distributed as part of the Template Toolkit until
version 2.15 released in May 2006.  At this time it was extracted into
this separate Template-DBI distribution.

See the documentation for L<Template::Plugin::DBI> for further details
on using the DBI plugin.

=head1 AUTHORS

The DBI plugin was originally written by Simon A Matthews, and
distributed as a separate module.  It was integrated into the Template
Toolkit distribution for version 2.00 and included contributions from
Andy Wardley, Craig Barratt, Dave Hodgkinson and Rafael Kitover.  Andy
Wardley extracted it back into a separate distribution in May 2006.
After that, in 2010 Jens Rehsack maintains this distribution.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

  Copyright (C) 1999-2006 Simon Matthews, Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved
  Copyright (C) 2010 Jens Rehsack.  All Rights Reserved

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Template>, L<Template::Plugins>, L<Template::Plugin::DBI>, L<DBI>,
L<Tie::DBI>

=cut

# Local Variables:
# mode: perl
# perl-indent-level: 4
# indent-tabs-mode: nil
# End:
#
# vim: expandtab shiftwidth=4:
