=head1 NAME

Mozilla::DOM::DocumentType

=for object Mozilla::DOM::DocumentType

Mozilla::DOM::DocumentType is a wrapper around an instance of Mozilla's
nsIDOMDocumentType interface. This inherits from
L<Mozilla::DOM::Node|Mozilla::DOM::Node>.

 * Each Document has a doctype attribute whose value is either null
 * or a DocumentType object.
 * The nsIDOMDocumentType interface in the DOM Core provides an
 * interface to the list of entities that are defined for the document.
 *
 * For more information on this interface please see
 * L<http:E<sol>E<sol>www.w3.orgE<sol>TRE<sol>DOM-Level-2-CoreE<sol>>

=head1 CLASS METHODS

=head2 $iid = Mozilla::DOM::DocumentType->B<GetIID>()

Pass this to QueryInterface.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 $namednodemap = $documenttype->B<GetEntities>()

A L<Mozilla::DOM::NamedNodeMap|Mozilla::DOM::NamedNodeMap> containing
the general entities, both external and internal, declared in the DTD.
Parameter entities are not contained. Duplicates are discarded.

In list context, returns a list of L<Mozilla::DOM::Entity|Mozilla::DOM::Entity>,
instead.

=head2 $str = $documenttype->B<GetInternalSubset>()

=head2 $name = $documenttype->B<GetName>()

=head2 $namednodemap = $documenttype->B<GetNotations>()

A L<Mozilla::DOM::NamedNodeMap|Mozilla::DOM::NamedNodeMap> containing
the notations declared in the DTD. Duplicates are discarded.

In list context, returns a list of L<Mozilla::DOM::Notation|Mozilla::DOM::Notation>,
instead.

=head2 $id = $documenttype->B<GetPublicId>()

=head2 $id = $documenttype->B<GetSystemId>()

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mozilla::DOM>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2005-2007, Scott Lanning

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Mozilla::DOM> for a full notice.

=cut

