=head1 NAME

Mozilla::DOM::DocumentEvent

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Mozilla::DOM::DocumentEvent is a wrapper around an instance of Mozilla's
nsIDOMDocumentEvent interface. This class inherits from
L<Supports|Mozilla::DOM::Supports>.

 * The nsIDOMDocumentEvent interface is the interface to the event
 * factory method on a DOM document object.
 *
 * For more information on this interface please see
 * L<http:E<sol>E<sol>www.w3.orgE<sol>TRE<sol>DOM-Level-2-EventsE<sol>>

(In particular, sections 1.5 and 1.6. Very important to read that
if you want to understand how to create an L<Event|Mozilla::DOM::Event>.)

=head1 CLASS METHODS

=head2 $iid = Mozilla::DOM::DocumentEvent->B<GetIID>()

Pass this to QueryInterface on a L<Document|Mozilla::DOM::Document>
object to get back a DocumentEvent, like

  $window = $browser->GetContentDOMWindow;
  $doc = $window->GetDocument;
  $iid = Mozilla::DOM::DocumentEvent->GetIID
  $docevent = $doc->QueryInterface($iid);
  $event = $docevent->CreateEvent('MouseEvents');
  $event->InitEvent('click', 1, 1);
  ...

You can also print it out, and it will look like

  {46b91d66-28e2-11d4-ab1e-0010830123b4}

=head1 METHODS

=head2 $domevent = $docevent->B<CreateEvent>($eventType)

=over

=over

=item * $eventtype (string)

=back

$event_type is a string, apparently one of 'Events', 'UIEvents',
'HTMLEvents', 'MutationEvents', 'KeyEvents', or 'MouseEvents'.
See section 1.6 of the DOM Level 2 specs. Apparently 'KeyEvents'
is not in DOM Level 2, but I was able to create them anyway.

The return value is an L<Event|Mozilla::DOM::Event> object.
You can then call L<InitEvent|Mozilla::DOM::Event/InitEvent>.
Or you can get the C<GetIID> of L<UIEvent|Mozilla::DOM::UIEvent>,
L<MouseEvent|Mozilla::DOM::MouseEvent>, or
L<MouseEvent|Mozilla::DOM::MouseEvent>, pass it to
$event->QueryInterface, call the corresponding Init(UI|Mouse|Key)Event
method. After that, call
L<DispatchEvent|Mozilla::DOM::EventTarget/DispatchEvent>
on an EventTarget.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mozilla::DOM>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2005-2007, Scott Lanning

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Mozilla::DOM> for a full notice.

=cut
