=head1 NAME

Mozilla::DOM::Event

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Mozilla::DOM::Event is a wrapper around an instance of Mozilla's
nsIDOMEvent interface, from which L<Mozilla::DOM::UIEvent|Mozilla::DOM::UIEvent>
inherits. This class inherits from L<Supports|Mozilla::DOM::Supports>.

 * The nsIDOMEvent interface is the primary datatype for all events in
 * the Document Object Model.
 *
 * For more information on this interface please see
 * L<http:E<sol>E<sol>www.w3.orgE<sol>TRE<sol>DOM-Level-2-EventsE<sol>>

The constants CAPTURING_PHASE, AT_TARGET, and BUBBLING_PHASE are available
for comparing with GetEventPhase. You can access these either through
the (mouse or key) event object, like $event->AT_TARGET, export them all
with C<use Mozilla::DOM::Event qw(:phases)>, or export them individually.

=head1 CLASS METHODS

=head2 $iid = Mozilla::DOM::Event->B<GetIID>()

Pass this to QueryInterface.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 $bool = $event->B<GetBubbles>

=over

Indicates whether or not an event is a bubbling event. If the
event can bubble the value is true, else the value is false.

=back

=head2 $bool = $event->B<GetCancelable>

=over

Indicates whether or not an event can have its default action
prevented. If the default action can be prevented the value is true,
else the value is false.

=back

=head2 $target = $event->B<GetCurrentTarget>

=over

Get the L<EventTarget|Mozilla::DOM::EventTarget>
whose L<EventListener|Mozilla::DOM::EventListener>s
are currently being processed. This is particularly useful
during capturing and bubbling.

=back

=head2 $phase = $event->B<GetEventPhase>

=over

Get which phase of event flow is currently being evaluated.

=back

=head2 $target = $event->B<GetTarget>

=over

Get the L<EventTarget|Mozilla::DOM::EventTarget>
to which the Event was originally dispatched.

=back

=head2 $event->B<GetTimeStamp>

=over

Used to specify the time (in milliseconds relative to the epoch) at
which the event was created. Due to the fact that some systems may
not provide this information the value of timestamp may be not
available for all events. When not available, a value of 0 will be
returned. Examples of epoch time are the time of the system start or
00:00:00 UTC 1st January 1970.

XXX: I'm doing something wrong, because it seems to only keep the
bottom half of the (64-bit) number. As long as the time between
events your comparing isn't too long, it shouldn't matter (as long
as the number doesn't wrap around...).
Let me know if you see what I'm doing wrong. I was thinking
also of splitting the number in half and returning a list
of two integers.

=back

=head2 $type = $event->B<GetType>

=over

The name of the event (case-insensitive). The name must be an XML name.

=back

=head2 $event->B<InitEvent>($eventType, $canbubble, $cancelable)

=over

=over

=item * $eventtype (string)

=item * $canbubble (boolean)

=item * $cancelable (boolean)

=back

   * The initEvent method is used to initialize the value of an Event
   * created through the DocumentEvent interface. This method may only be
   * called before the Event has been dispatched via the dispatchEvent
   * method, though it may be called multiple times during that phase if
   * necessary. If called multiple times the final invocation takes
   * precedence. If called from a subclass of Event interface only the
   * values specified in the initEvent method are modified, all other
   * attributes are left unchanged.
   *
   * @param   eventTypeArg Specifies the event type. This type may be
   *                       any event type currently defined in this
   *                       specification or a new event type.. The string
   *                       must be an XML name.
   *                       Any new event type must not begin with any
   *                       upper, lower, or mixed case version of the
   *                       string "DOM". This prefix is reserved for
   *                       future DOM event sets. It is also strongly
   *                       recommended that third parties adding their
   *                       own events use their own prefix to avoid
   *                       confusion and lessen the probability of
   *                       conflicts with other new events.
   * @param   canBubbleArg Specifies whether or not the event can bubble.
   * @param   cancelableArg Specifies whether or not the event's default
   *                        action can be prevented.

The $event object is an event created by DocumentEvent's
L<CreateEvent|Mozilla::DOM::DocumentEvent/CreateEvent> method.
You can morph that into a KeyEvent, etc., by calling
<QueryInterface|Mozilla::DOM::Supports/QueryInterface>.

The $event_type argument here depends on the argument you passed
to CreateEvent. Here is information obtained from section 1.6
of the DOM Level 2 specification (qv. for more details):

=over 4

=item UIEvents

=over 4

=item DOMFocusIn

The DOMFocusIn event occurs when an EventTarget receives focus, for
instance via a pointing device being moved onto an element or by
tabbing navigation to the element. Unlike the HTML event focus,
DOMFocusIn can be applied to any focusable EventTarget, not just FORM
controls.

    * Bubbles: Yes
    * Cancelable: No
    * Context Info: None

=item DOMFocusOut

The DOMFocusOut event occurs when a EventTarget loses focus, for
instance via a pointing device being moved out of an element or by
tabbing navigation out of the element. Unlike the HTML event blur,
DOMFocusOut can be applied to any focusable EventTarget, not just
FORM controls.

    * Bubbles: Yes
    * Cancelable: No
    * Context Info: None

=item DOMActivate

The activate event occurs when an element is activated, for instance,
thru a mouse click or a keypress. A numerical argument is provided to
give an indication of the type of activation that occurs: 1 for a
simple activation (e.g. a simple click or Enter), 2 for
hyperactivation (for instance a double click or Shift Enter).

        * Bubbles: Yes
        * Cancelable: Yes
        * Context Info: detail (the numerical value)

=back

=item MouseEvents

=over 4

=item click

The click event occurs when the pointing device button is clicked
over an element. A click is defined as a mousedown and mouseup over
the same screen location. The sequence of these events is:

    mousedown
    mouseup
    click

If multiple clicks occur at the same screen location, the sequence
repeats with the detail attribute incrementing with each
repetition. This event is valid for most elements.

    * Bubbles: Yes
    * Cancelable: Yes
    * Context Info: screenX, screenY, clientX, clientY, altKey,
      ctrlKey, shiftKey, metaKey, button, detail

=item mousedown

The mousedown event occurs when the pointing device button is pressed
over an element. This event is valid for most elements.

    * Bubbles: Yes
    * Cancelable: Yes
    * Context Info: screenX, screenY, clientX, clientY, altKey,
      ctrlKey, shiftKey, metaKey, button, detail

=item mouseup

The mouseup event occurs when the pointing device button is released
over an element. This event is valid for most elements.

    * Bubbles: Yes
    * Cancelable: Yes
    * Context Info: screenX, screenY, clientX, clientY, altKey,
      ctrlKey, shiftKey, metaKey, button, detail

=item mouseover

The mouseover event occurs when the pointing device is moved onto an
element. This event is valid for most elements.

    * Bubbles: Yes
    * Cancelable: Yes
    * Context Info: screenX, screenY, clientX, clientY, altKey,
      ctrlKey, shiftKey, metaKey,
      relatedTarget indicates the EventTarget the pointing device is exiting.

=item mousemove

The mousemove event occurs when the pointing device is moved while it
is over an element. This event is valid for most elements.

    * Bubbles: Yes
    * Cancelable: No
    * Context Info: screenX, screenY, clientX, clientY, altKey, ctrlKey,
      shiftKey, metaKey

=item mouseout

The mouseout event occurs when the pointing device is moved away from
an element. This event is valid for most elements..

    * Bubbles: Yes
    * Cancelable: Yes
    * Context Info: screenX, screenY, clientX, clientY, altKey,
      ctrlKey, shiftKey, metaKey,
      relatedTarget indicates the EventTarget the pointing device is entering.

=back

=item KeyEvents

Not provided with DOM Level 2, it says. However, see the Events example.

=item MutationEvents

The mutation event module is designed to allow notification of any
changes to the structure of a document, including attr and text
modifications. [...]

(I'm not sure why you'd create one of these. EventListeners?
Seems they'd be automatically generated, though, when you
modified the DOM somehow.)

=over 4

=item DOMSubtreeModified

This is a general event for notification of all changes to the
document. It can be used instead of the more specific events listed
below. It may be fired after a single modification to the document
or, at the implementation's discretion, after multiple changes have
occurred. The latter use should generally be used to accomodate
multiple changes which occur either simultaneously or in rapid
succession. The target of this event is the lowest common parent of
the changes which have taken place. This event is dispatched after
any other events caused by the mutation have fired.

        * Bubbles: Yes
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: None

=item DOMNodeInserted

Fired when a node has been added as a child of another node. This
event is dispatched after the insertion has taken place. The target
of this event is the node being inserted.

        * Bubbles: Yes
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: relatedNode holds the parent node

=item DOMNodeRemoved

Fired when a node is being removed from its parent node. This event
is dispatched before the node is removed from the tree. The target of
this event is the node being removed.

        * Bubbles: Yes
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: relatedNode holds the parent node

=item DOMNodeRemovedFromDocument

Fired when a node is being removed from a document, either through
direct removal of the Node or removal of a subtree in which it is
contained. This event is dispatched before the removal takes
place. The target of this event is the Node being removed. If the
Node is being directly removed the DOMNodeRemoved event will fire
before the DOMNodeRemovedFromDocument event.

        * Bubbles: No
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: None

=item DOMNodeInsertedIntoDocument

Fired when a node is being inserted into a document, either through
direct insertion of the Node or insertion of a subtree in which it is
contained. This event is dispatched after the insertion has taken
place. The target of this event is the node being inserted. If the
Node is being directly inserted the DOMNodeInserted event will fire
before the DOMNodeInsertedIntoDocument event.

        * Bubbles: No
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: None

=item DOMAttrModified

Fired after an Attr has been modified on a node. The target of this
event is the Node whose Attr changed. The value of attrChange
indicates whether the Attr was modified, added, or removed. The value
of relatedNode indicates the Attr node whose value has been
affected. It is expected that string based replacement of an Attr
value will be viewed as a modification of the Attr since its identity
does not change. Subsequently replacement of the Attr node with a
different Attr node is viewed as the removal of the first Attr node
and the addition of the second.

        * Bubbles: Yes
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: attrName, attrChange, prevValue, newValue, relatedNode

=item DOMCharacterDataModified

Fired after CharacterData within a node has been modified but the
node itself has not been inserted or deleted. This event is also
triggered by modifications to PI elements. The target of this event
is the CharacterData node.

        * Bubbles: Yes
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: prevValue, newValue

=back

=item HTMLEvents

I don't see anything in the Mozilla headers,
and I haven't wrapped a Mozilla::DOM::HTMLEvent class,
but here you go anyway.

=over 4

=item load

The load event occurs when the DOM implementation finishes loading
all content within a document, all frames within a FRAMESET, or an
OBJECT element.

        * Bubbles: No
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: None

=item unload

The unload event occurs when the DOM implementation removes a
document from a window or frame. This event is valid for BODY and
FRAMESET elements.

        * Bubbles: No
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: None

=item abort

The abort event occurs when page loading is stopped before an image
has been allowed to completely load. This event applies to OBJECT
elements.

        * Bubbles: Yes
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: None

=item error

The error event occurs when an image does not load properly or when
an error occurs during script execution. This event is valid for
OBJECT elements, BODY elements, and FRAMESET element.

        * Bubbles: Yes
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: None

=item select

The select event occurs when a user selects some text in a text
field. This event is valid for INPUT and TEXTAREA elements.

        * Bubbles: Yes
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: None

=item change

The change event occurs when a control loses the input focus and its
value has been modified since gaining focus. This event is valid for
INPUT, SELECT, and TEXTAREA. element.

        * Bubbles: Yes
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: None

=item submit

The submit event occurs when a form is submitted. This event only
applies to the FORM element.

        * Bubbles: Yes
        * Cancelable: Yes
        * Context Info: None

=item reset

The reset event occurs when a form is reset. This event only applies
to the FORM element.

        * Bubbles: Yes
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: None

=item focus

The focus event occurs when an element receives focus either via a
pointing device or by tabbing navigation. This event is valid for the
following elements: LABEL, INPUT, SELECT, TEXTAREA, and BUTTON.

        * Bubbles: No
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: None

=item blur

The blur event occurs when an element loses focus either via the
pointing device or by tabbing navigation. This event is valid for the
following elements: LABEL, INPUT, SELECT, TEXTAREA, and BUTTON.

        * Bubbles: No
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: None

=item resize

The resize event occurs when a document view is resized.

        * Bubbles: Yes
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: None

=item scroll

The scroll event occurs when a document view is scrolled.

        * Bubbles: Yes
        * Cancelable: No
        * Context Info: None

=back

=back

=back

=head2 $event->B<PreventDefault>

=over

If an event is cancelable, the prevent_default method is used to
signify that the event is to be canceled, meaning any default action
normally taken by the implementation as a result of the event will
not occur. If, during any stage of event flow, the prevent_default
method is called the event is canceled. Any default action associated
with the event will not occur. Calling this method for a
non-cancelable event has no effect. Once prevent_default has been
called it will remain in effect throughout the remainder of the
event's propagation. This method may be used during any stage of
event flow.

=back

=head2 $event->B<StopPropagation>

=over

This method is used prevent further propagation of an
event during event flow. If this method is called by any
L<EventListener|Mozilla::DOM::EventListener>
the event will cease propagating
through the tree. The event will complete dispatch to all listeners
on the current L<EventTarget|Mozilla::DOM::EventTarget>
before event flow stops.
This method may be used during any stage of event flow.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mozilla::DOM>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2005-2007, Scott Lanning

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Mozilla::DOM> for a full notice.

=cut
