=head1 NAME

Mozilla::DOM::EventListener

=for object Mozilla::DOM::EventListener

THIS CLASS IS EXPERIMENTAL. SEE README FOR HOW TO ENABLE EXPERIMENTAL FEATURES.

Mozilla::DOM::EventListener is a wrapper around an instance of Mozilla's
nsIDOMEventListener interface. This class inherits from
L<Supports|Mozilla::DOM::Supports>.

 * The nsIDOMEventListener interface is a callback interface for
 * listening to events in the Document Object Model.
 *
 * For more information on this interface please see 
 * L<http:E<sol>E<sol>www.w3.orgE<sol>TRE<sol>DOM-Level-2-EventsE<sol>>

From DOM 2 spec:
The EventListener interface is the primary method
for handling events. Users implement the EventListener interface and
register their listener on an EventTarget using the AddEventListener
method. The users should also remove their EventListener from its
EventTarget after they have completed using the listener.

Here is why support for EventListener is considered "experimental".
If your listener goes out of scope, HandleEvent will segfault
because the class's destructor gets called. (So you have to put
the listener in some "global" variable.) Obviously I need to prevent
the segfault from happening, but the current workaround is to make
sure there's always something pointing to an EventListener so that
it doesn't go out of scope.
  The ideal situation would be the following. Say that you
call AddEventListener in one signal handler with a certain
EventListener. You're not likely to want to also call RemoveEventListener
from the same handler. However, how would you access the original
EventListener if it's out of scope? You could create a new
EventListener with the same parameters as the one you previously
passed to AddEventListener. It wouldn't even matter what subref you
passed to it; calling RemoveEventListener with this EventListener
would have the same effect as calling it with the original EventListener.
  But the problem is keeping the internal event listener object alive
even after the Mozilla::DOM::EventListener object has been destroyed,
because otherwise when HandleEvent is called it will point to an
invalid event listener. I think the way to do this will be to only
create the internal event listener object when AddEventListener is
called, and only if no previous EventListener of the same type has
been added. Then only destroy the internal event listener when
RemoveEventListener is called, checking first that one exists to
be destroyed. I think these changes would be backwards compatible.

=head1 CLASS METHODS

=head2 $iid = Mozilla::DOM::EventListener->B<GetIID>()

Pass this to QueryInterface.

=head2 Mozilla::DOM::EventListener->B<new>(\&handler)

The constructor for this class. Pass a subroutine reference
as its argument. This subroutine will be called from the
HandleEvent method.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 $listener->HandleEvent($event)

Note: you cannot call this method from Perl. Instead you pass
a handler (subroutine reference) to this class's `new' method.
The handler's argument will be the event being handled by HandleEvent.

This method is called whenever an event occurs of the type for which 
the EventListener interface was registered.

The L<Event|Mozilla::DOM::Event> contains contextual information about
the event. It also contains the
L<StopPropagation|Mozilla::DOM::Event/StopPropagation> and
L<PreventDefault|Mozilla::DOM::Event/PreventDefault> methods
which are used in determining the event's flow and default action.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mozilla::DOM>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2005-2007, Scott Lanning

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Mozilla::DOM> for a full notice.

=cut

