=head1 NAME

Mozilla::DOM::HTMLFormElement

=for object Mozilla::DOM::HTMLFormElement

Mozilla::DOM::HTMLFormElement is a wrapper around an instance of Mozilla's
nsIDOMHTMLFormElement interface. This class inherits from
L<HTMLElement|Mozilla::DOM::HTMLElement>.

 * The nsIDOMHTMLFormElement interface is the interface to a [X]HTML
 * form element.
 *
 * For more information on this interface please see
 * http://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-2-HTML/
 *
 * @status FROZEN

=head1 CLASS METHODS

=head2 $iid = Mozilla::DOM::HTMLFormElement->B<GetIID>()

Pass this to QueryInterface.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 $acceptcharset = $htmlformelement->B<GetAcceptCharset>()

=head2 $htmlformelement->B<SetAcceptCharset>($acceptcharset)

=over

=over

=item * $acceptcharset (string)

=back

=back

=head2 $action = $htmlformelement->B<GetAction>()

=over

=back

=head2 $htmlformelement->B<SetAction>($action)

=over

=over

=item * $action (string)

=back

=back

=head2 $enctype = $htmlformelement->B<GetEnctype>()

=head2 $htmlformelement->B<SetEnctype>($enctype)

=over

=over

=item * $enctype (string)

=back

=back

=head2 $method = $htmlformelement->B<GetMethod>()

=head2 $htmlformelement->B<SetMethod>($method)

=over

=over

=item * $method (string)

=back

=back

=head2 $name = $htmlformelement->B<GetName>()

=head2 $htmlformelement->B<SetName>($name)

=over

=over

=item * $name (string)

=back

=back

=head2 $target = $htmlformelement->B<GetTarget>()

=head2 $htmlformelement->B<SetTarget>($target)

=over

=over

=item * $target (string)

=back

=back

=head2 $elements = $htmlformelement->B<GetElements>()

$elements is a L<Mozilla::DOM::HTMLCollection|Mozilla::DOM::HTMLCollection>.

In list context, returns a list of L<Mozilla::DOM::Node|Mozilla::DOM::Node>.
(See DOM 2 HTML spec.) I'm guessing you can QueryInterface this to
HTMLElement, but I leave that to you:

  $iid = Mozilla::DOM::HTMLElement->GetIID;
  $htmlelement = $node->QueryInterface($iid);

=head2 $length = $htmlformelement->B<GetLength>()

Number of elements returned by GetElements.

=head2 $htmlformelement->B<Reset>()

Reset inputs to their default values.

=head2 $htmlformelement->B<Submit>()

Submits the <form>, but doesn't trigger the onSubmit event.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mozilla::DOM>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2005-2007, Scott Lanning

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Mozilla::DOM> for a full notice.

=cut

