=head1 NAME

Mozilla::DOM::MouseEvent

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The second argument of GtkMozEmbed's dom_mouse_* signal handlers will be a
Mozilla::DOM::MouseEvent object, which is a wrapper around an instance
of Mozilla's nsIDOMMouseEvent interface. This inherits from
L<UIEvent|Mozilla::DOM::UIEvent>.

 * The nsIDOMMouseEvent interface is the datatype for all mouse events
 * in the Document Object Model.
 *
 * For more information on this interface please see
 * L<http:E<sol>E<sol>www.w3.orgE<sol>TRE<sol>DOM-Level-2-EventsE<sol>>

=head1 CLASS METHODS

=head2 $iid = Mozilla::DOM::MouseEvent->B<GetIID>()

Pass this to QueryInterface.

=for apidoc Mozilla::DOM::MouseEvent::GetRelatedTarget

=for signature $target = $event->GetRelatedTarget

Gets an L<EventTarget|Mozilla::DOM::EventTarget>,
but I don't know what's "related" about it since I didn't
find any documentation.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 $bool = $event->B<GetAltKey>

=over

This function returns true if the Alt key was held down
when the mouse event occured. (Note: I found this to not
be strictly true.)

=back

=head2 $button = $event->B<GetButton>

=over

This function gets a number representing which mouse button was pressed.
With three-button mice: left button = 0, middle button = 1, and
right button = 2. (With two-button mice, there is no middle button,
and with one-button mice there is only a left button.)

Note: this is only valid for L<Gtk2::MozEmbed::main/dom_mouse_click> events.

=back

=head2 $x = $event->B<GetClientX>

=over

This function gets the X coordinate where the mouse was clicked on the
client, i.e. the Gtk2::MozEmbed window. X = 0 is at the left and
increases to the right.

Note: this number might be negative on L<Gtk2::MozEmbed::main/dom_mouse_out>
events when the mouse leaves the Gtk2::MozEmbed widget but hasn't left the
application window.

=back

=head2 $y = $event->B<GetClientY>

=over

This function gets the Y coordinate where the mouse was clicked on the
client, i.e. the Gtk2::MozEmbed window. Y = 0 is at the top and increases
downward.

Note: this number might be negative on L<Gtk2::MozEmbed::main/dom_mouse_out>
events when the mouse leaves the Gtk2::MozEmbed widget but hasn't left the
application window.

=back

=head2 $bool = $event->B<GetCtrlKey>

=over

This function returns true if the Ctrl key was held down
when the mouse event occured.

=back

=head2 $bool = $event->B<GetMetaKey>

=over

This function returns true if the Meta key was held down
when the mouse event occured.

=back

=head2 $x = $event->B<GetScreenX>

=over

This function gets the X coordinate where the mouse was clicked
on the screen, i.e. your desktop. X = 0 is at the left and increases
to the right.

=back

=head2 $y = $event->B<GetScreenY>

=over

This function gets the Y coordinate where the mouse was clicked
on the screen, i.e. your desktop. Y = 0 is at the top and increases
downward.

=back

=head2 $bool = $event->B<GetShiftKey>

=over

This function returns true if the Shift key was held down
when the mouse event occured.


=back

=head2 eventtarget = $event->B<GetTarget>

=over

=back

=head2 $event->B<InitMouseEvent>($eventType, $canbubble, $cancelable, $detail, $screenx, $screeny, $clientx, $clienty, $ctrlkey, $altkey, $shiftkey, $metakey, $button, $target)

=over

=over

=item * $eventtype (string)

=item * $canbubble (boolean)

=item * $cancelable (boolean)

=item * $detail (integer (long))

=item * $screenx (integer (long))

=item * $screeny (integer (long))

=item * $clientx (integer (long))

=item * $clienty (integer (long))

=item * $ctrlkey (boolean)

=item * $altkey (boolean)

=item * $shiftkey (boolean)

=item * $metakey (boolean)

=item * $button (integer (short))

=item * $target (Mozilla::DOM::EventTarget)

=back

See L<Event::InitEvent|Mozilla::DOM::Event::InitEvent> for more
information. This method is basically the same as L<InitUIEvent>,
but with nine (ten normally) extra arguments. (!)
(XXX: add docs for args)

Note: I don't see how you can Create or QueryInterface an AbstractView,
and trying to pass in C<0> or C<undef> was just causing a segfault,
so I've omitted what would normally be the 4th argument of this method.
If someone can explain why you'd need it and how you'd use it,
then I can put it back in.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mozilla::DOM>,
section 1.6.2 of the DOM level 2 specification

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2005-2007, Scott Lanning

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Mozilla::DOM> for a full notice.

=cut
