=head1 NAME

Mozilla::DOM::MutationEvent

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Mozilla::DOM::MutationEvent is a wrapper around an instance of Mozilla's
nsIDOMMutationEvent interface. This inherits from
L<UIEvent|Mozilla::DOM::Event>.

The following constants are available to be compared with GetAttrChange.
You can access these either through the event object,
export them all with
C<use Mozilla::DOM::MutationEvent qw(:changes)>, or export them individually.

=over 4

=item MODIFICATION

=item ADDITION

=item REMOVAL

=back

=head1 CLASS METHODS

=head2 $iid = Mozilla::DOM::MutationEvent->B<GetIID>()

Pass this to QueryInterface.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 $mutationevent->B<GetAttrChange>()

=over

=back

=head2 $name = $mutationevent->B<GetAttrName>()

=over

=back

=head2 $value = $mutationevent->B<GetNewValue>()

=over

=back

=head2 $value = $mutationevent->B<GetPrevValue>()

=over

=back

=head2 $node = $mutationevent->B<GetRelatedNode>()

=over

=back

=head2 $event->B<InitMutationEvent>($eventType, $canbubble, $cancelable, $node, $prevValue, $newValue, $attrName, $attrChange)

=over

=over

=item * $eventtype (string)

=item * $canbubble (boolean)

=item * $cancelable (boolean)

=item * $node (Mozilla::DOM::Node)

=item * $prevval (string)

=item * $newval (string)

=item * $attrname (string)

=item * $attrchange (integer (short))

=back

See L<Event::InitEvent|Mozilla::DOM::Event/InitEvent> for more
information. This method is basically the same as InitEvent,
but with five extra arguments.
(XXX: add docs for args)

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mozilla::DOM>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2005-2007, Scott Lanning

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Mozilla::DOM> for a full notice.

=cut
