=head1 NAME

Mozilla::DOM::UIEvent

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Mozilla::DOM::UIEvent is a wrapper around an instance of Mozilla's
nsIDOMUIEvent interface, from which L<Mozilla::DOM::KeyEvent|Mozilla::DOM::KeyEvent>
and L<Mozilla::DOM::MouseEvent|Mozilla::DOM::MouseEvent> inherit.
This class inherits from L<Event|Mozilla::DOM::Event>.

 * The nsIDOMUIEvent interface is the datatype for all UI events in the
 * Document Object Model.
 *
 * For more information on this interface please see
 * L<http:E<sol>E<sol>www.w3.orgE<sol>TRE<sol>DOM-Level-2-EventsE<sol>>

=head1 CLASS METHODS

=head2 $iid = Mozilla::DOM::UIEvent->B<GetIID>()

Pass this to QueryInterface.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 $int = $event->B<GetDetail>

=over

I don't know what a "detail" is. (Apparently it isn't used during
dom_mouse_over or dom_mouse_out signals. When clicking the mouse,
it seems to be the number of consecutive clicks, up to 3.)

=back

=head2 $abstract_view = $event->B<GetView>

=over

See the DOM Level 2 Views specification.

=back

=head2 $event->B<InitUIEvent>($eventType, $canbubble, $cancelable, $detail)

=over

=over

=item * $eventtype (string)

=item * $canbubble (boolean)

=item * $cancelable (boolean)

=item * $detail (integer (long))

=back

See L<Event::InitEvent|Mozilla::DOM::Event::InitEvent> for more
information. This method is basically the same, but with two
extra arguments.
(XXX: add docs for args)

Note: I don't see how you can Create or QueryInterface an AbstractView,
and trying to pass in C<0> or C<undef> was just causing a segfault,
so I've omitted what would normally be the 4th argument of this method.
If someone can explain why you'd need it and how you'd use it,
then I can put it back in.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mozilla::DOM>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2005-2007, Scott Lanning

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Mozilla::DOM> for a full notice.

=cut
