=head1 NAME

Mozilla::DOM::URI

=for object Mozilla::DOM::URI

Mozilla::DOM::URI is a wrapper around an instance of Mozilla's
nsIURI interface. This class inherits from
L<Supports|Mozilla::DOM::Supports>.

 * nsIURI - interface for an uniform resource identifier w/ i18n support.
 *
 * AUTF8String attributes may contain unescaped UTF-8 characters.
 * Consumers should be careful to escape the UTF-8 strings as necessary, but
 * should always try to "display" the UTF-8 version as provided by this
 * interface.
 *
 * AUTF8String attributes may also contain escaped characters.
 *
 * Unescaping URI segments is unadvised unless there is intimate
 * knowledge of the underlying charset or there is no plan to display (or
 * otherwise enforce a charset on) the resulting URI substring.
 *
 * @status FROZEN

 * URIs are essentially structured names for things -- anything. This interface
 * provides accessors to set and query the most basic components of an URI.
 * Subclasses, including nsIURL, impose greater structure on the URI.
 *
 * This interface follows Tim Berners-Lee's URI spec (RFC2396) [1], where the
 * basic URI components are defined as such:
 *
 *      ftp://username:password@hostname:portnumber/pathname
 *      \ /   \               / \      / \        /\       /
 *       -     ---------------   ------   --------  -------
 *       |            |             |        |         |
 *       |            |             |        |        Path
 *       |            |             |       Port         
 *       |            |            Host      /
 *       |         UserPass                 /
 *     Scheme                              /
 *       \                                /
 *        --------------------------------
 *                       |
 *                    PrePath
 *
 * The definition of the URI components has been extended to allow for
 * internationalized domain names [2] and the more generic IRI structure [3].
 *
 * [1] http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2396.txt
 * [2] http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-idn-idna-06.txt
 * [3] http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-masinter-url-i18n-08.txt

=head1 CLASS METHODS

=head2 $iid = Mozilla::DOM::URI->B<GetIID>()

Pass this to QueryInterface.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 $retval = $uri->B<Clone>()

=over

     * Clones the current URI.  For some protocols, this is more than just an
     * optimization.  For example, under MacOS, the spec of a file URL does not
     * necessarily uniquely identify a file since two volumes could share the
     * same name.

=back

=head2 $bool = $uri->B<Equals>($other)

=over

=over

=item * $other (Mozilla::DOM::URI)

=back

     * URI equivalence test (not a strict string comparison).
     *
     * eg. http://foo.com:80/ == http://foo.com/

=back

=head2 $asciihost = $uri->B<GetAsciiHost>()

=over

     * The URI host with an ASCII compatible encoding.  Follows the IDNA
     * draft spec for converting internationalized domain names (UTF-8) to
     * ASCII for compatibility with existing internet infrasture.

=back

=head2 $asciispec = $uri->B<GetAsciiSpec>()

=over

     * The URI spec with an ASCII compatible encoding.  Host portion follows
     * the IDNA draft spec.  Other parts are URL-escaped per the rules of
     * RFC2396.  The result is strictly ASCII.

=back

=head2 $host = $uri->B<GetHost>()

=over

     * The host is the internet domain name to which this URI refers.  It could
     * be an IPv4 (or IPv6) address literal.  If supported, it could be a
     * non-ASCII internationalized domain name.
     *
     * Characters are NOT escaped.

=back

=head2 $hostport = $uri->B<GetHostPort>()

=over

     * The host:port (or simply the host, if port == -1).
     *
     * Characters are NOT escaped.

=back

=head2 $origincharset = $uri->B<GetOriginCharset>()

=over

     * The charset of the document from which this URI originated.  An empty
     * value implies UTF-8.
     *
     * If this value is something other than UTF-8 then the URI components
     * (e.g., spec, prePath, username, etc.) will all be fully URL-escaped.
     * Otherwise, the URI components may contain unescaped multibyte UTF-8
     * characters.

=back

=head2 $password = $uri->B<GetPassword>()

=over

See GetUserName.

=back

=head2 $path = $uri->B<GetPath>()

=over

     * The path, typically including at least a leading '/' (but may also be
     * empty, depending on the protocol).
     *
     * Some characters may be escaped.

=back

=head2 $port = $uri->B<GetPort>()

=over

     * A port value of -1 corresponds to the protocol's default port (eg. -1
     * implies port 80 for http URIs).

=back

=head2 $prepath = $uri->B<GetPrePath>()

=over

     * The prePath (eg. scheme://user:password@host:port) returns the string
     * before the path.  This is useful for authentication or managing sessions.
     *
     * Some characters may be escaped.

=back

=head2 $scheme = $uri->B<GetScheme>()

=over

     * The Scheme is the protocol to which this URI refers.  The scheme is
     * restricted to the US-ASCII charset per RFC2396.

=back

=head2 $spec = $uri->B<GetSpec>()

=over

     * Returns a string representation of the URI. Setting the spec causes
     * the new spec to be parsed, initializing the URI.
     *
     * Some characters may be escaped.

=back

=head2 $userpass = $uri->B<GetUserPass>()

=over

     * The username:password (or username only if value doesn't contain a ':')
     *
     * Some characters may be escaped.

=back

=head2 $username = $uri->B<GetUsername>()

=over

     * The optional username and password, assuming the preHost consists of
     * username:password.
     *
     * Some characters may be escaped.

=back

=head2 $retval = $uri->B<Resolve>($relativepath)

=over

=over

=item * $relativePath (string)

=back

     * This method resolves a relative string into an absolute URI string,
     * using this URI as the base.
     *
     * NOTE: some implementations may have no concept of a relative URI.

=back

=head2 $bool = $uri->B<SchemeIs>($scheme)

=over

=over

=item * $scheme (string)

=back

     * An optimization to do scheme checks without requiring the users of nsIURI
     * to GetScheme, thereby saving extra allocating and freeing. Returns true if
     * the schemes match (case ignored).

=back

=head2 $uri->B<SetHost>($host)

=over

=over

=item * $aHost (string)

=back

See GetHost.

=back

=head2 $uri->B<SetHostPort>($hostport)

=over

=over

=item * $aHostPort (string)

=back

See GetHostPort.

=back

=head2 $uri->B<SetPassword>($password)

=over

=over

=item * $aPassword (string)

=back

See GetUserName.

=back

=head2 $uri->B<SetPath>($path)

=over

=over

=item * $aPath (string)

=back

See GetPath.

=back

=head2 $uri->B<SetPort>($port)

=over

=over

=item * $aPort (integer (long))

=back

See GetPort.

=back

=head2 $uri->B<SetScheme>($scheme)

=over

=over

=item * $aScheme (string)

=back

See GetScheme.

=back

=head2 $uri->B<SetSpec>($spec)

=over

=over

=item * $aSpec (string)

=back

See GetSpec.

=back

=head2 $uri->B<SetUserPass>($userpass)

=over

=over

=item * $aUserPass (string)

=back

See GetUserPass.

=back

=head2 $uri->B<SetUsername>($username)

=over

=over

=item * $aUsername (string)

=back

See GetUserName.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mozilla::DOM>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2005-2007, Scott Lanning

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Mozilla::DOM> for a full notice.

=cut

