=head1 NAME

Mozilla::DOM::WebNavigation

=for object Mozilla::DOM::WebNavigation

Mozilla::DOM::WebNavigation is a wrapper around an instance of Mozilla's
nsIWebNavigation interface. This class inherits from
L<Supports|Mozilla::DOM::Supports>.

Note: the nsIWebNavigation interface isn't marked FROZEN in Gecko,
so it can change.

You can get this object by QueryInterfacing WebBrowser:

  $iid = Mozilla::DOM::WebNavigation->GetIID;
  $navigation = $browser->QueryInterface($iid);

XXX: The following methods are unfortunately not wrapped yet:
LoadURI, GetSessionHistory, SetSessionHistory. I'd especially
like to have LoadURI, but I don't know how to do nsIInputStream
for its last two arguments.

The following constants are available.
You can export them all with C<use Mozilla::DOM::WebNavigation qw(:flags)>
or export them individually.

=over 4

=item LOAD_FLAGS_MASK => 65535

=item LOAD_FLAGS_NONE => 0

  * Normal load flag.

=item LOAD_FLAGS_IS_REFRESH => 16

  * Meta-refresh flag.  The cache is bypassed.  This type of load is
  *                     usually the result of a meta-refresh tag, or a HTTP
  *                     'refresh' header.

=item LOAD_FLAGS_IS_LINK => 32

  * Link-click flag. 

=item LOAD_FLAGS_BYPASS_HISTORY => 64

  * Bypass history flag.

=item LOAD_FLAGS_REPLACE_HISTORY => 128

  * Replace history entry flag.

=item LOAD_FLAGS_BYPASS_CACHE => 256

=item LOAD_FLAGS_BYPASS_PROXY => 512

=item LOAD_FLAGS_CHARSET_CHANGE => 1024

=item STOP_NETWORK => 1

  * Stop all network activity.  This includes both active network loads and
  * pending meta-refreshes.

=item STOP_CONTENT => 2

  * Stop all content activity.  This includes animated images, plugins and
  * pending Javascript timeouts.

=item STOP_ALL => 3

  * Stop all activity.

=back

=head1 CLASS METHODS

=head2 $iid = Mozilla::DOM::WebNavigation->B<GetIID>()

Pass this to QueryInterface.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 $bool = $webnavigation->B<GetCanGoBack>()

=over

  * Indicates if the object can go back.  If true this indicates that
  * there is back session history available for navigation.

Note: this method is available in Gtk2::MozEmbed:

  $embed->can_go_back

=back

=head2 $bool = $webnavigation->B<GetCanGoForward>()

=over

  * Indicates if the object can go forward.  If true this indicates that
  * there is forward session history available for navigation

Note: this method is available in Gtk2::MozEmbed:

  $embed->can_go_forward

=back

=head2 $currenturi = $webnavigation->B<GetCurrentURI>()

=over

  * The currently loaded URI or null.

Note: I think this is the same as

  $embed->get_location

in Gtk2::MozEmbed.

=back

=head2 $document = $webnavigation->B<GetDocument>()

=over

  * Retrieves the current DOM document for the frame, or lazily creates a
  * blank document if there is none. This attribute never returns null except
  * for unexpected error situations.

Note: this document is also available by doing

    my $browser = $embed->get_nsIWebBrowser;
    my $window = $browser->GetContentDOMWindow;
    my $doc = $window->GetDocument;

=back

=head2 $referringuri = $webnavigation->B<GetReferringURI>()

=over

  * The referring URI.

=back

=head2 $webnavigation->B<GoBack>()

=over

  * Tells the object to navigate to the previous session history item.  When
  * a page is loaded from session history, all content is loaded from the
  * cache (if available) and page state (such as form values, scroll position)
  * is restored.
  *
  * @return NS_OK               - Backward navigation was successful.
  *         NS_ERROR_UNEXPECTED - This call was unexpected at this time.  Most
  *                               likely you can't go back right now.

Note: this method is available in Gtk2::MozEmbed:

  $embed->go_back()

=back

=head2 $webnavigation->B<GoForward>()

=over

  * Tells the object to navigate to the next Forward session history item.
  * When a page is loaded from session history, all content is loaded from
  * the cache (if available) and page state (such as form values, scroll
  * position) is restored.
  *
  * @return NS_OK               - Forward was successful.
  *         NS_ERROR_UNEXPECTED - This call was unexpected at this time.  Most
  *                               likely you can't go forward right now.

Note: this method is available in Gtk2::MozEmbed:

  $embed->go_forward()

=back

=head2 $webnavigation->B<GotoIndex>($index)

=over

=over

=item * $index (integer (long))

=back

  * Tells the object to navigate to the session history item at index.
  *
  * @return NS_OK -               GotoIndex was successful.
  *         NS_ERROR_UNEXPECTED - This call was unexpected at this time.  Most
  *                               likely you can't goto that index

=back

=head2 $webnavigation->B<Reload>($reloadflags)

=over

=over

=item * $reloadFlags (integer (long))

=back

  * Tells the Object to reload the current page.
  *
  * @param reloadFlags - Flags modifying reload behaviour. Generally you will
  *                      pass LOAD_FLAGS_NONE for this parameter.

Note: this method is available in Gtk2::MozEmbed:

  $embed->reload($flags)

(See also the section "flags Gtk2::MozEmbed::Reload"
in `perldoc Gtk2::MozEmbed::main`.)

=back

=head2 $webnavigation->B<Stop>($stopflags)

=over

=over

=item * $stopFlags (integer (long))

=back

  * Stops a load of a URI.
  *
  * @param stopFlags - Flags indicating the stop behavior.

Note: this method is available in Gtk2::MozEmbed:

  $embed->stop_load();

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mozilla::DOM>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2005-2007, Scott Lanning

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Mozilla::DOM> for a full notice.

=cut

