=head1 NAME

Mozilla::DOM::Window

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Mozilla::DOM::Window is a wrapper around an instance of Mozilla's
nsIDOMWindow interface. This class inherits from
L<Supports|Mozilla::DOM::Supports>.

 * The nsIDOMWindow interface is the primary interface for a DOM
 * window object. It represents a single window object that may
 * contain child windows if the document in the window contains a
 * HTML frameset document or if the document contains iframe elements.
 *
 * This interface is not officially defined by any standard bodies, it
 * originates from the defacto DOM Level 0 standard.

Note: the GetScrollbars is not wrapped (non-trivial to do)

=head1 CLASS METHODS

=head2 $iid = Mozilla::DOM::Window->B<GetIID>()

Pass this to QueryInterface.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 $document = $window->B<GetDocument>()

=over

   * Accessor for the document in this window.

=back

=head2 $window_collection = $window->B<GetFrames>()

   * Accessor for the child windows in this window.

In scalar context, returns a
L<Mozilla::DOM::WindowCollection|Mozilla::DOM::WindowCollection>.

In list context, returns a list of L<Mozilla::DOM::Window|Mozilla::DOM::Window>
(I think... whatever $window_collection->Item($n) is.)

=head2 $name = $window->B<GetName>()

=over

Get the name of this window.

This corresponds to window.name in JavaScript.

=back

=head2 $window = $window->B<GetParent>()

=over

   * Accessor for this window's parent window, or the window itself if
   * there is no parent, or if the parent is of different type
   * (i.e. this does not cross chrome-content boundaries).

=back

=head2 $selection = $window->B<GetSelection>()

=over

   * Method for accessing this window's selection object.

=back

=head2 $num = $window->B<GetTextZoom>()

=over

   * Set/Get the document scale factor as a multiplier on the default
   * size. When setting this attribute, a NS_ERROR_NOT_IMPLEMENTED
   * error may be returned by implementations not supporting
   * zoom. Implementations not supporting zoom should return 1.0 all
   * the time for the Get operation. 1.0 is equals normal size,
   * i.e. no zoom.

=back

=head2 $window = $window->B<GetTop>()

=over

   * Accessor for the root of this hierarchy of windows. This root may
   * be the window itself if there is no parent, or if the parent is
   * of different type (i.e. this does not cross chrome-content
   * boundaries).
   *
   * This property is "replaceable" in JavaScript */

=back

=head2 $window->B<SetName>($name)

=over

=over

=item * $name (string)

=back

Set the name of this window.

"This attribute is 'replaceable' in JavaScript";
where it corresponds to window.name.

=back

=head2 $window->B<SetTextZoom>($zoom)

=over

=over

=item * $zoom (double)

=back

=back

=head2 $window->B<SizeToContent>()

=over

   * Method for sizing this window to the content in the window.

XXX: doesn't seem to work. Maybe window resize is disabled,
or maybe Gtk2 prevents it.

=back

=begin comment

  /**
   * Accessor for the object that controls whether or not scrollbars
   * are shown in this window.
   *
   * This attribute is "replaceable" in JavaScript
   */
  /* readonly attribute nsIDOMBarProp scrollbars; */
#=for apidoc Mozilla::DOM::Window::GetScrollbars
#
#=for signature $window->GetScrollbars(nsIDOMBarProp * *aScrollbars)
#
#
#
#=cut
#
### GetScrollbars(nsIDOMBarProp * *aScrollbars)
#somereturn *
#moz_dom_GetScrollbars (window, aScrollbars)
#	nsIDOMWindow *window;
#	nsIDOMBarProp * *aScrollbars ;
#    PREINIT:
#
#    CODE:
#	window->GetScrollbars(&);
#	RETVAL = ;
#    OUTPUT:
#	RETVAL

=end comment

=cut

=head2 $x = $window->B<GetScrollX>()

=over

   * Accessor for the current x scroll position in this window in
   * pixels.
   *
   * This attribute is "replaceable" in JavaScript

=over

=item * $x (double)

=back

=back

=head2 $y = $window->B<GetScrollY>()

=over

   * Accessor for the current y scroll position in this window in
   * pixels.
   *
   * This attribute is "replaceable" in JavaScript

=over

=item * $y (double)

=back

=back

=head2 $window->B<ScrollTo>($xScroll, $yScroll)

=over

   * Method for scrolling this window to an absolute pixel offset.

=over

=item * $xScroll (double)

=item * $yScroll (double)

=back

=back

=head2 $window->B<ScrollBy>($xScrollDif, $yScrollDif)

=over

   * Method for scrolling this window to a pixel offset relative to
   * the current scroll position.

=over

=item * $xScrollDif (double)

=item * $yScrollDif (double)

=back

=back

=head2 $window->B<ScrollByLines>($numLines)

=over

   * Method for scrolling this window by a number of lines.

=over

=item * $numLines (double)

=back

=back

=head2 $window->B<ScrollByPages>($numPages)

=over

   * Method for scrolling this window by a number of pages.

=over

=item * $numPages (double)

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mozilla::DOM>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2005-2007, Scott Lanning

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Mozilla::DOM> for a full notice.

=cut
