=head1 NAME

PDK::Concern::Netdisco::Role - A Moose role for network device discovery and management

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  package MyNetworkManager;
  use Moose;
  with 'PDK::Concern::Netdisco::Role';

  # Implement required methods
  sub gen_iface_desc { ... }
  sub commands { ... }

  # Use the role's methods
  $self->explore_topology();
  $self->write_file($config, $filename);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This role provides functionality for network device discovery, topology exploration, and configuration management. It is designed to be used with classes that represent network devices and their management interfaces.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 device

A read-only attribute that must be an instance of a class that does the PDK::Device::Base role. This represents the network device being managed.

=head2 month

A read-only attribute that lazily loads the current month in YYYY-MM format.

=head2 date

A read-only attribute that lazily loads the current date in YYYY-MM-DD format.

=head2 workdir

A read-write attribute representing the working directory. Defaults to the value of the PDK_CONCERN_HOME environment variable or the user's home directory.

=head2 debug

A read-write attribute that controls debug output. Defaults to the value of the PDK_CONCERN_DEBUG environment variable or 0.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 now

Returns the current date and time in "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS" format.

=head2 dump($message)

Prints debug information. If debug level is 1, it prints to STDOUT. If debug level is greater than 1, it writes to a file in the dump directory.

=head2 write_file($config, $name)

Writes the provided configuration to a file in the working directory. The filename defaults to the device's hostname with a .txt extension.

=head2 explore_topology

Explores the network topology by executing commands on the device and generating interface descriptions.

=head2 refine_if($interface_name)

Normalizes interface names by applying a set of predefined replacements.

=head1 REQUIRED METHODS

Classes consuming this role must implement the following methods:

=over 4

=item * gen_iface_desc

=item * commands

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

WENWU YAN <968828@gmail.com>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2024 WENWU YAN

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

=cut