=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Any::Daemon::FCGI::ClientConn - handle FCGI requests

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Handles request from one single client in FCGI protocol.  This object
gets initialized on any incoming connection by L<Any::Daemon::HTTP|Any::Daemon::HTTP> when
C<protocol=FCGI>.

More than one request can be collected at any moment, and they will be
processed once complete.  However, they will be processed in a single
thread: they have to wait for another to complete.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item Any::Daemon::FCGI::ClientConn-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option    --Default
  max_childs  <required>
  socket      <required>

=over 2

=item max_childs => INTEGER

The number of processes which are started in this back-end server.  We do
not want more than this number of requests from the front-end server.

=item socket => IO::Socket::IP

Our client socket, for incoming traffic.

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<socket>()

=back

=head2 HTTP

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<my>($request = $client->get_request;)

Returns the next L<Any::Daemon::FCGI::Request|Any::Daemon::FCGI::Request> object (which is a simple
extension to HTTP::Request).  Maintenance records which are in the
incoming stream are handled as well.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Any-Daemon-HTTP distribution version 0.29,
built on November 04, 2019. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/any-daemon/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2013-2019 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

