=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

POSIX::SigSet - collect signal flags

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use POSIX::SigSet ();
  use POSIX::1003::Signals;

  $sigset = POSIX::SigSet->new;
  $sigset = POSIX::SigSet->new(SIGUSR1);
  $sigset->addset(SIGUSR2);
  $sigset->delset(SIGUSR2);
  $sigset->emptyset();
  $sigset->fillset();
  if( $sigset->ismember(SIGUSR1) ) { ... }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<POSIX::SigSet> object is simple a collection of signal flags. The
object is administered in POSIX.xs.  See L<POSIX::SigAction|POSIX::SigAction> for
examples of its usage.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item POSIX::SigSet-E<gt>B<new>( [$signals] )

Create a new SigSet object. One or more $signals can be added immediately.
The object will be destroyed automatically when it is no longer needed.

=back

=head2 Other

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addset>($signal)

Add one signal to a SigSet object. Returns C<undef> on failure.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<delset>($signal)

Remove one signal from the SigSet object.
Returns C<undef> on failure.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<emptyset>()

Initialize the SigSet object to be empty.  Returns C<undef> on failure.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fillset>()

Initialize the SigSet object to include all signals.  Returns C<undef>
on failure.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<ismember>()

Tests the SigSet object to see if it contains a specific signal.

example: 

  if($sigset->ismember(SIGUSR1)) {
      print "contains SIGUSR1\n";
  }

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of POSIX-1003 distribution version 1.02,
built on November 10, 2020. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN>.  The code is based on L<POSIX>, which
is released with Perl itself.  See also L<POSIX::Util> for
additional functionality.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights 2011-2020 on the perl code and the related documentation
 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

