=head1 NAME

  XML::GDOME::XPath::Evaluator - Interface XPathEvaluator implementation.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  $xpeval     = XML::GDOME::XPathEvaluator::mkref();
  $xpnsresolv = $xpeval->createNSResolver($nodeResolver);
  $xpresult   = $xpeval->createResult();
  $xpresult   = $xpeval->evaluate($expression,$contextNode,$resolver,$type,$result);

=head1 METHODS

=over 4


=item $xpeval = XML::GDOME::XPathEvaluator::mkref();

Constructor of the XPathEvaluator interface.

I<Returns>: the reference to the XPathEvaluator structure.


=item $xpnsresolv = $xpeval->createNSResolver($nodeResolver);

Adapts any DOM node to resolve namespaces so that an XPath expression can be easily evaluated relative to the context of the node where it appeared within the document.

I<Returns>: GdomeXPathNSResolver object.


=item $xpresult = $xpeval->createResult();



I<Returns>: an GdomeXPathResult object which may be passed as a parameter to the          evaluation methods of this GdomeXPathEvaluator so that a new one is not          created on each call to an evaluation method.


=item $xpresult = $xpeval->evaluate($expression,$contextNode,$resolver,$type,$result);

Evaluates an XPath expression string

I<C<expression>>: The XPath expression string to be parsed and evaluated.

I<C<contextNode>>: Context node for the evaluation of this XPath expression.

I<C<resolver>>: The resolver permits translation of prefixes within the XPath           expression into appropriate namespace URIs.

I<C<type>>: If specified, result will be coerced to return the specified type.

I<C<result>>: Specifies a GdomeXPathResult object to be re-used.

I<Returns>: a result of the specified type if possible. 


=back

