=head1 NAME

urpmq - urpmi database query tool.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    urpmq [options] [package_names | rpm_files...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

urpmq is a tool to access and query the urpmi database. It can be used to
list available packages in the various urpmi media, or to list the full
dependencies of a package, or to list the packages that will be installed
if you start urpmi. The output of urpmq has the following format, adjusted
according to the command-line options that were used:

    [group/]package_name[-version][-release][.arch]

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-h>, B<-?>, B<--help>

Prints a help message and exit.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Activate verbose mode.


=item B<--force>

Continue when requesting packages that are not available.

=back

=head2 Operation Modes

=over

=item B<--list>

List available packages.

=item B<--list-media> [I<type>]

List available media. You can optionally add a type selector: B<all> to
list all media (the default), B<update> to list the update media, or
B<active> to list only active media.

=item B<--list-url>

List available media and their URLs.

=item B<--list-nodes>

List available nodes for parallel installation (when using B<--parallel>).

=item B<--list-aliases>

List available parallel aliases.



=back

=head2 Package Selection

=over

=item B<--auto-select>

Select all packages that can be upgraded, according to already installed
packages and packages listed in various registered media.

=item B<--auto-orphans>

List orphans.

=item B<--not-available>

List packages that are not available on any media. This can help to find
packages that are still installed but that are now obsolete because they
have been removed from the current version of Mageia Linux.

=item B<--no-recommends>

With this option, urpmq will not require "recommended" packages.
By default, urpmq will require (newly) recommended packages.

=item B<--allow-recommends>

With this option, urpmi will install "recommended" packages.
This is useful if you have C<no-recommends> in urpmi.cfg.

=item B<--keep>

When some dependencies cannot be satisfied,
change the selection of packages to try to keep existing packages instead
of removing them. This behaviour generally rejects the upgrade of packages
given on command line (or when using B<--auto-select>) when a dependency error
occurs.

=item B<-y>, B<--fuzzy>

Disable fast search on exact package name; i.e. it will propose
all packages matching the name partially, even if one of them matches exactly
the specified name.

=item B<-Y>

Like B<-y>/B<--fuzzy>, but forces to match case-insensitively.

=item B<-s>, B<--src> I<name>

Search a source package
matching I<name> and it will select all dependencies by default.

=item B<--ignorearch>

Allow to search packages whose architecture isn't compatible with the
architecture of the host.

=item B<-u>

Deselect packages if a better version is already installed.

=item B<-m>

Equivalent to B<-du>.

=item B<-a>

Select all matches on command line; that's useful when one gives an
incomplete package name and when using B<-f> or B<-r>.

=item B<-c>

If maximal closure is used, assume that a package listed may have wrong or
not up-to-date dependencies. This causes more packages to be upgraded and
may correct unresolved dependencies on the rpm database.


=item B<-p>, B<--whatprovides>

Search in provides to find package.

=item B<--whatrequires>

Reverse search to what requires the package given.

=item B<--whatrequires-recursive>

Reverse search to what requires recursively the package given
(looking through virtual packages).

=back

=head2 Output Options

=over


=item B<-i>

Prints useful information in human readable form, as for I<rpm -qi>.

=item B<-g>

Prints groups of each package listed.

=item B<-r>

Prints also version and release of each package listed.

=item B<-f>

Prints also version, release and arch of each package listed.

=item B<-l>

Lists files in packages.

=item B<--changelog>

Prints the package changelog.

=item B<--conflicts>

Prints the package conflicts.

=item B<--obsoletes>

Prints the package obsoletes.

=item B<--provides>

Prints the package provides.

=item B<--requires>

Prints the package requires.

=item B<--recommends>

Prints the package recommends.

=item B<--sources>

Prints source URLs (or file names) of all selected
packages.

=item B<--sourcerpm>

Prints the sourcerpm of the package

=item B<-S>, B<--summary>

Prints concise information about the package.

=item B<-d>, B<--requires-recursive>

Print dependencies (maximal closure).


=back

=head2 Media Selection

=over

=item B<--update>

Use only update media. This means that urpmq will search and resolve
dependencies only in media marked as containing updates (e.g. which have
been created with C<urpmi.addmedia --update>).

=item B<--media> I<media1,...,mediaN>

Select specific media to be used, instead of defaulting
to all available media (or all update media if B<--update> is used).
No rpm will be found in other media.

=item B<--excludemedia> I<media1,...,mediaN>

Do not use the specified media.

=item B<--searchmedia> I<media>

Use only the specified media to search for packages that are specified on
the command-line, or which are found when using B<--auto-select>.
Dependencies of those packages can still be found in other media.

=item B<--sortmedia> I<media1,...,mediaN>

Sort the specified media. Substrings may be used to simplify grouping.
This way, C<media1> will be taken into account first, then C<media2>, and
so on. Media which aren't listed are taken into account after the others.

=item B<--synthesis> I<file>

Use the specified synthesis file instead of the urpmi database for
searching packages and resolving dependencies.

=item B<--parallel> I<alias>

Activate distributed execution of urpmi to other machines (it is mandatory
that urpmi is installed but it is not necessary to have media defined on
any machines). I<alias> defines which extension module to use by urpmi
(currently urpmi-parallel-ka-run or urpmi-parallel-ssh) and which
machines should be updated, this alias is defined in the file
F</etc/urpmi/parallel.cfg> as described below.

=item B<--root> I<directory>

Use the file system tree rooted for rpm install. All operations and
scripts will run after chroot(2). The rpm database in the rooted tree
will be used but urpmi configuration comes from normal system.

=item B<--urpmi-root> I<directory>

Use the file system tree rooted for urpmi database and rpm install. Contrary
to B<--root>, the urpmi configuration comes from the rooted tree.


=item B<--use-distrib> I<directory>

Configure urpmq on the fly from a distribution tree.

=item B<--skip> I<pattern,...>

You can specify a list of packages which installation should be skipped.
You can also include patterns between //, just like in
F</etc/urpmi/skip.list> (see urpmi.files(5)).

=item B<--prefer> I<pattern,...>

You can specify a list of packages which installation should be preferred
(especially useful with B<--auto>).
You can also include patterns between //, just like in
F</etc/urpmi/prefer.list> (see urpmi.files(5)).


=back

=head2 Download Options

=over

=item B<--wget>

Use wget for downloading distant files. By default curl
is used if available, or wget instead.

=item B<--curl>

Use curl for downloading distant files. By default curl is used if
available, or wget instead.

=item B<--curl-options> I<'options'>

=item B<--rsync-options> I<'options'>

=item B<--wget-options> I<'options'>

Specify additional command-line options to be passed to curl, rsync or
wget when retrieving files. If several options are to be passed, separate
them with spaces and enclose them in quotes.

Note that the rsync options will also be used for ssh media.

=item B<--proxy> I<proxyhost[:port|1080]>

Use specified HTTP proxy.

=item B<--proxy-user> I<user:password>

Use specified user and password to use for proxy authentication.
Specifying B<--proxy-user=ask> will cause urpmq to prompt for a username
and a password.

=back

=head2 Debugging Options

=over

=item B<--env> I<directory>

Use a different environment directly from a bug report to replay a bug.
The argument is the same argument given to B<--bug> option.


=back

=head1 FILES

See urpmi.files(5).

=head1 SEE ALSO

urpmi.addmedia(8), urpmi.update(8), urpmi.removemedia(8), urpmf(8),
urpmi(8), urpmi.files(5).

=head1 AUTHOR

Thierry Vignaud <tv@mageia.org> (current maintainer),
Pascal Rigaux (original author),
FranE<ccedil>ois Pons, Rafael Garcia-Suarez 
