=head1 NAME

urpmi.addmedia - adds a new rpm media to be used by urpmi

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    urpmi.addmedia [options] <name> <url>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

urpmi.addmedia is used to add a new media to be used by urpmi, so it can
find new rpms at the specified location. Currently supported media types
are: local drives, removable drives (such as CDs), and networked media via
different protocols (http, ftp, ssh and rsync). One of the following modes
must be chosen:

=over

=item B<urpmi.addmedia> [I<options>] --distrib --mirrorlist [<I<url>>]

A mirror list is a special API to describe mirrors available. urpmi will pick
the nearest mirror, and will dynamically handle new mirrors. Example:

  urpmi.addmedia --distrib --mirrorlist

=item B<urpmi.addmedia> [I<options>] --mirrorlist <I<url>> <I<name>> <I<relative path>>

Example:

  urpmi.addmedia --mirrorlist '$MIRRORLIST' backports media/main/backports

=item B<urpmi.addmedia> [I<options>] <I<name>> http://<I<login>>:<I<pass>>@<I<host>>/<I<path>>

where <I<name>> is a human-readable name for the new media (e.g.
"updates"). <I<name>> is optional if B<--distrib> is given in the options
list. <I<host>>/<I<path>> is the location of the media directory on the
net (e.g. C<media/main>). The location is given relative to
<I<path>>. B<curl> is used by default to download files, B<wget> may be
used if B<curl> is not installed or if or B<--wget> is given in
I<options>. Example:

    urpmi.addmedia http http://jpackage.sf.net/rpm/free

=item B<urpmi.addmedia> [I<options>] <I<name>> ftp://<I<login>>:<I<pass>>@<I<host>>/<I<path>>

The same as for http. Add your login and password if required (note that
you don't need to specify B<anonymous> as login for anonymous access ftp
servers). If B<wget> is used to download files with a firewall you may
have to ensure that the B<passive_ftp> option is on in B</etc/wgetrc>
(that's usually the default). Example:

    urpmi.addmedia ftp ftp://a:a@leia//export/media/main

=item B<urpmi.addmedia> [I<options>] <I<name>> ssh://<I<login>>@<I<host>>/<I<path>>

The same as for http and ftp; add your login and password if required. You
may want to export the public key in order not to have to type your
password. rsync over an ssh connection will be used to get files. urpmi
will try to re-use the same ssh connection over multiple invocations.

Example:

    urpmi.addmedia ssh ssh://fpons@bi/c/i586/media/main

=item B<urpmi.addmedia> [I<options>] <I<name>> rsync://<I<login>>@<I<host>>:<I<port>>/<I<path>>

The same as for http; you can use the <I<host>>::<I<path>> syntax too. Example:

    urpmi.addmedia rsync rsync://ftp.orst.edu::mandrake-devel/contrib/ppc

=item B<urpmi.addmedia> [I<options>] <I<name>> file://<I<path>>

where <I<name>> is a human-readable name for the new media (e.g.
"local updates"). <I<path>> is the location of the media directory on your
machine (e.g. C<media/main>).

=item B<urpmi.addmedia> [I<options>] <I<name>> cdrom://<I<path>>

<I<path>> is the location of the media directory in the CDROM or DVD.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 Media Search and Selection

=over

=item B<--mirrorlist>

Use the given url as a mirror list. It is quite special, please see examples
at the beginning of this page.

You can also give a space separated list of urls. Each url can be either a
mirrorlist or a mirror url. This is useful if you have a mirror to use inside
a local network, but still use standard mirrors when the local mirror is not
available.


nb: $MIRRORLIST is a special variable which gives the default URL for the
current distribution/arch. $MIRRORLIST is the default mirrorlist.

=item B<--zeroconf>

Find a media repository for the current distribution using zeroconf (DNS-SD).
It can be used together with B<--distrib> or by specifying a media name and a
path to the media directory, relative to the repository root.

=item B<--distrib>

Retrieve a set of media from a distribution. Typically, the URL provided
to C<urpmi.addmedia> will represent the parent directory of a directory
B<media>, which in turn will contain various subdirectories for each
medium of the distribution. <I<name>> is combined with medium names found
to create newer medium names in the urpmi database.

=item B<--interactive>

This option is to be used with B<--distrib>. With it, C<urpmi.addmedia>
will ask for confirmation for each media it finds for the specified
distribution.

=item B<--all-media>

This option is to be used with B<--distrib>. With it, C<urpmi.addmedia>
will attempt to add all media it finds. By default, it won't add media
containing source rpms, or media corresponding to supplementary CD-ROMs
on distributions.


=back

=head2 Media Handling

=over

=item B<--update>

Adds a media which will be taken into account by B<MageiaUpdate> or by
C<urpmi --update> when looking for updates.

If used together with B<--distrib>, it will only add media flagged "update".

=item B<--verify-rpm>

=item B<--no-verify-rpm>

Activate or deactivate rpm signature checking of newly added media.
It's activated by default, and can be overridden in global configuration.

=item B<--xml-info>

Use the specific policy for downloading xml info files. 
It must be one of: never, on-demand, update-only, always.
See urpmi.cfg(5) for more information.

=item B<--probe-synthesis>

Use synthesis file.

=item B<--probe-rpms>

Use rpm files (instead of synthesis).


=item B<--virtual>

Creates a virtual medium: the medium is always up-to-date and so it does not
need to be updated by C<urpmi.update>.

=item B<--raw>

Add the new media in the urpmi configuration file, but don't update it nor
proceed to any download. The media, to be usable, will need to be updated
with C<urpmi.update>; it's ignored until then.

=item B<--nopubkey>

Don't import pubkey of added media.


=back

=head2 Download Options

=over

=item B<--wget>

Use wget only for downloading distant files. By default curl is used if
available.

=item B<--curl>

Use curl only for downloading distant files. This is the default if curl
is available.

=item B<--curl-options> I<'options'>

=item B<--rsync-options> I<'options'>

=item B<--wget-options> I<'options'>

Specify additional command-line options to be passed to curl, rsync or
wget when retrieving files. If several options are to be passed, separate
them with spaces and enclose them in quotes.

Note that the rsync options will also be used for ssh media.

=item B<--limit-rate I<rate>>

Try to limit the download speed, I<rate> is given in bytes/sec. This option
is not active by default.

=item B<--proxy> I<proxyhost[:port|1080]>

Use specified HTTP proxy.

=item B<--proxy-user> I<user:password>

Use specified user and password to use for proxy authentication.
Specifying B<--proxy-user=ask> will cause C<urpmi.addmedia> to prompt for a
username and a password.


=back

=head2 Database Options

=over

=item B<--urpmi-root> I<directory>

Use the file system tree rooted for urpmi database and rpm install. Contrary
to B<--root>, the urpmi configuration comes from the rooted tree.

=item B<--wait-lock>

If the urpmi or rpm db is busy, wait until it is available


=back

=head1 Variables

Beginning with urpmi 4.6.16, you can use variables in media URLs (for
example F</mnt/mirror/$RELEASE/$ARCH/media/main>). The variables supported
so far are:

=over

=item B<$ARCH>

The architecture (if found in F</etc/release>).

=item B<$RELEASE>

The OS release (if found in F</etc/release>; its value should be B<cauldron>
on a Mageia cauldron system.)

=item B<$HOST>

The canonical hostname of the machine urpmi runs on.

=item B<$MIRRORLIST>

The url of the default mirrorlist for the distribution.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

urpmi(8), urpmi.update(8), urpmi.removemedia(8), urpmf(8), urpmq(8), urpmi.files(5).

=head1 Author

Thierry Vignaud <tv@mageia.org> (current maintainer),
Pascal Rigaux (original author),
FranE<ccedil>ois Pons, Rafael Garcia-Suarez 
