=head1 NAME

urpmi.update - Updates package lists for specified media

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    urpmi.update [options] [<names>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

urpmi.update scans the specified urpmi media to update their package list.
<I<names>> is a list of names you first told to urpmi.addmedia.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--force-key>

Force update of GPG key.

=item B<--ignore>, B<--no-ignore>

Don't update media, but mark them as ignored (that is, disables them).
B<--no-ignore> has the reverse behaviour: it marks the media as enabled.

=item B<--no-md5sum>

Disable MD5SUM file checking.

=item B<--urpmi-root> I<directory>

Use the file system tree rooted for urpmi database and rpm install. Contrary
to B<--root>, the urpmi configuration comes from the rooted tree.

=item B<--wait-lock>

If the urpmi or rpm db is busy, wait until it is available

=item B<--update>

Use only update media.

=item B<-a>

Select all enabled non-static media to update them.

=item B<-f>

Force updating synthesis

=item B<-ff>

Really force updating synthesis

=item B<--probe-rpms>

Do not use synthesis, use rpm files directly

=item B<-q>

Quiet mode.

=item B<-v>

Verbose mode.


=back

=head2 Download Options

=over

=item B<--curl>

Use curl for downloading distant
files. By default curl is used if available, or wget instead.

=item B<--wget>

Use wget for downloading distant files. By default curl
is used if available, or wget instead.

=item B<--curl-options> I<'options'>

=item B<--rsync-options> I<'options'>

=item B<--wget-options> I<'options'>

Specify additional command-line options to be passed to curl, rsync or
wget when retrieving files. If several options are to be passed, separate
them with spaces and enclose them in quotes.

Note that the rsync options will also be used for ssh media.

=item B<--proxy> I<proxyhost[:port|1080]>

Use specified HTTP proxy.

=item B<--proxy-user> I<user:password>

Use specified user and password to use for proxy authentication.
Specifying B<--proxy-user=ask> will cause urpmi.update to prompt for a
username and a password.

=item B<--limit-rate I<rate>>

Try to limit the download speed, I<rate> is given in bytes/sec. This
option is not active by default.


=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

urpmi(8), urpmi.addmedia(8), urpmi.removemedia(8).

=head1 AUTHOR

Thierry Vignaud <tv@mageia.org> (current maintainer),
Pascal Rigaux (original author),
FranE<ccedil>ois Pons, Rafael Garcia-Suarez 
