=head1 NAME

urpmi - rpm downloader, installer and dependency solver

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    urpmi [options] [package_names | rpm_files...]
    urpmi [options] --auto-select

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The purpose of urpmi is to install rpm packages, including all their
dependencies. You can also use it to install the build dependencies of an
srpm (an rpm source package), or the build dependencies read from a plain
rpm spec file; or to install a source package itself in order to rebuild
it afterwards.

You can compare rpm vs. urpmi with insmod vs. modprobe or dpkg vs apt-get.
Just run urpmi followed by what you think is the name of the package(s),
and urpmi will:

=over 4

=item *

Propose different package names if the name was ambiguous, and quit.

=item *

If only one corresponding package is found, check whether its
dependencies are already installed.

=item *

If not, propose to install the dependencies, and on a positive answer,
proceed.

=item *

Finish by installing the requested package(s).

=back

Note that urpmi handles installations from various types of media (ftp,
http, https, rsync, ssh, local and nfs volumes, and removable media such
as CDROMs or DVDs) and is able to install dependencies from a medium
different from the original package's media. For removable media, urpmi
may ask you to insert the appropriate disk, if necessary.

To add a new medium containing rpms, run C<urpmi.addmedia>. To remove an
existing medium, use C<urpmi.removemedia>. To update the package list (for
example when the ftp archive changes) use C<urpmi.update>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-h>, B<-?>, B<--help>

Prints a help message and exit.

=item B<--force>

Assume yes on all questions.

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet>

Quiet mode: when calling rpm no upgrade status is printed.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Proposes a verbose mode with various messages.

=back

=head2 Media Selection

=over

=item B<--media> I<media1,...,mediaN>

Select specific media to be used, instead of defaulting
to all available media (or all update media if B<--update> is used).
No rpm will be fetched from other media.

=item B<--excludemedia> I<media1,...,mediaN>

Do not use the specified media.

=item B<--searchmedia> I<media1,...,mediaN>

Use only the specified media to search for packages that are specified on
the command-line, or which are found when using B<--auto-select>.
Dependencies of those packages can still be found in other media.

=item B<--sortmedia> I<media1,...,mediaN>

Sort the specified media. Substrings may be used to simplify grouping.
This way, C<media1> will be taken into account first, then C<media2>, and
so on. Media which aren't listed are taken into account after the others.

=item B<--update>

Use only update media. This means that urpmi will search packages and
resolve dependencies only in media marked as containing updates.

=item B<--synthesis> I<file>

Use the specified synthesis file instead of the urpmi database for
searching packages and resolving dependencies. This option is mostly
designed for internal use.

=item B<--use-distrib> I<directory>

Configure urpmi on the fly from a distrib tree, useful to install a chroot
with the B<--root> option. See the description of the B<--distrib> option
in the C<urpmi.addmedia> manpage.



=back

=head2 Operation Modes

=over

=item B<--auto-select>

Select all packages that can be upgraded, according to already installed
packages and packages listed in various registered media.

=item B<--auto-update>

Like B<--auto-select>, but also updates all relevant media before
selection of upgradeable packages is made. This avoids a previous call to
C<urpmi.update>.

=item B<--auto-orphans>

Remove all orphans without asking (see also C<urpme --auto-orphans>)


=back

=head2 Package Selection

=over

=item B<--auto>

Install all required dependencies without asking.


=item B<-y>, B<--fuzzy>

Disable fast search on exact package name; that means that urpmi will
propose all packages matching part of the name, even if one of them
matches exactly the specified name.

=item B<--buildrequires>

Select all the C<BuildRequires> of the wanted source packages.
(You can also install the build dependencies read directly from an rpm spec file.)

=item B<--install-src>

Install only the source package (that is, no binary packages will be
installed). You don't need to be root to use this option (if you have
write access to your rpm build top directory).


=item B<--no-recommends>

With this option, urpmi will not install "recommended" packages.
By default, urpmi will install (newly) recommended packages.

=item B<--allow-recommends>

With this option, urpmi will install "recommended" packages.
This is useful if you have C<no-recommends> in urpmi.cfg.


=item B<--strict-arch>

Upgrade only packages if the newer version has the same architecture as
the one installed. Mostly useful on machines that support several
architectures (32 and 64 bit).

=item B<-a>

If multiple packages match the given substring, install them all.

=item B<-p>

Allow search in provides to find the package (this is the default).

=item B<-P>

Do not search in provides to find package (this is the opposite of B<-p>).


=item B<--skip> I<pattern,...>

You can specify a list of packages which installation should be skipped.
You can also include patterns between //, just like in
F</etc/urpmi/skip.list> (see urpmi.files(5)).

=item B<--prefer> I<pattern,...>

You can specify a list of packages which installation should be preferred
(especially useful with B<--auto>).
You can also include patterns between //, just like in
F</etc/urpmi/prefer.list> (see urpmi.files(5)).

=item B<--more-choices>

When several packages are found, propose more choices than the default.


=back

=head2 Package Processing

=over

=item B<--no-md5sum>

Disable MD5SUM file checking when updating media.

=item B<--force-key>

Force update of GPG key when updating media.

=item B<--no-install>

Only download packages, don't install them. After operation, you'll find
them in F</var/cache/urpmi/rpms>.

=item B<--no-uninstall>

Never ask to uninstall a package but prefer aborting instead. This can be
safer in auto mode.

=item B<--keep>

When some dependencies cannot be satisfied, change the selection of
packages to try to keep existing packages instead of removing them. This
behaviour generally rejects the upgrade of packages given on command line
(or when using B<--auto-select>) when a dependency error occurs.

=item B<--split-level> I<number>

Split urpmi's operation in small transactions when the total number of
packages to upgrade is greater than the given I<number>. This option is
activated by default, and the default value of I<number> is 20.

=item B<--split-length> I<count>

Split urpmi's operation in small transactions of at
least I<count> packages. The default is 8 and setting this value to 0 just
disables splitting in small transactions.

=item B<--clean>

Remove all packages from the cache in directory F</var/cache/urpmi/rpms>.

=item B<--noclean>

Do not remove any package from the cache in directory
F</var/cache/urpmi/rpms>.

=item B<--justdb>

Update only the database, not the filesystem.

=item B<--downgrade>

Force installing the packages even though they are already installed.

=item B<--replacepkgs>

Force installing the packages even though they are already installed.

=item B<--allow-nodeps>

With this option, urpmi will ask the user on error whether it should
continue the installation without checking dependencies. By default, urpmi
exits immediately in this case.

=item B<--allow-force>

With this option, urpmi will ask the user on error whether it should
proceed to a forced installation. By default, urpmi exits immediately in
this case.

=item B<--allow-medium-change>

When used when B<--auto>, do not suppress all questions, but still ask the
user for medium changes (e.g. insertion of CD-ROMs).


=item B<--download-all> I<dest-dir>

By default, urpmi will download packages when they are needed. This can be 
problematic when connection failures happen during a big upgrade. When this
option is set, urpmi will first download all the needed packages and proceed
to install them if it managed to download them all. You can optionally 
specify a directory where the files should be downloaded (default is /var/cache/urpmi which could be too small to hold all the files).


=item B<--verify-rpm>

=item B<--no-verify-rpm>

Activate or deactivate rpm signature checking. It's activated by default,
and can be overridden in global configuration.

=item B<--test>

Test the installation of packages but do not actually install anything or
modify the system. (That's the same as C<rpm --test>).

=item B<--excludepath> I<string>

Do not install files of which the
names begin with the given I<string> (same as C<rpm --excludepath>).

=item B<--excludedocs>

Do not install documents files (same as C<rpm --excludedocs>).

=item B<--ignorearch>

Allow to install packages whose architecture does not match the
architecture of the host. This is equivalent to C<rpm --ignorearch>.

=item B<--ignoresize>

Don't check file systems for sufficient disk space before installation.
This is equivalent to C<rpm --ignoresize>.

=item B<--noscripts>

Don't execute the scriptlets.
This is equivalent to C<rpm --noscripts>.

=item B<--replacefiles>

Ignore file conflicts.
This is equivalent to C<rpm --replacefiles>.




=back

=head2 Database Options

=over

=item B<--root> I<directory>

Use the file system tree rooted for rpm install. All operations and
scripts will run after chroot(2). The rpm database that lies in the rooted
tree will be used, but the urpmi configuration comes from the normal
system.

=item B<--urpmi-root> I<directory>

Use the file system tree rooted for urpmi database and rpm install. Contrary
to B<--root>, the urpmi configuration comes from the rooted tree.

=item B<--nolock>

Don't lock urpmi and rpm db. This can be useful in conjunction with
B<--root>.

=item B<--wait-lock>

If the urpmi or rpm db is busy, wait until it is available


=back

=head2 Download Options

=over

=item B<--parallel> I<alias>

Activate distributed execution of urpmi to other machines (it is mandatory
that urpmi is installed, but it is not necessary to have media defined on
any machines). I<alias> defines which extension module is to be used by
urpmi (currently, C<urpmi-parallel-ka-run> or C<urpmi-parallel-ssh> are
available) and which machines should be updated. This alias is defined in
the file F</etc/urpmi/parallel.cfg> as described in the L<urpmi.files>
manpage.

=item B<--downloader> I<program name>

Use a specific program for downloading distant files via http or ftp.
By default curl is used if available, or wget instead.

=item B<--curl-options> I<'options'>

=item B<--rsync-options> I<'options'>

=item B<--wget-options> I<'options'>

Specify additional command-line options to be passed to curl, rsync or
wget when retrieving files. If several options are to be passed, separate
them with spaces and enclose them in quotes.

Note that the rsync options will also be used for ssh media (since it's
actually rsync over ssh).

=item B<--limit-rate> I<rate>

Try to limit the download speed. I<rate> is given in bytes/sec. This
option is not active by default.

=item B<--resume>

Resume transfer of partially-downloaded files.

=item B<--retry> I<times>

Retries to download files over FTP or HTTP the specified number
of times.

=item B<--proxy> I<proxyhost[:port]>

Use specified HTTP proxy.

=item B<--proxy-user> I<user:password>

Use specified user and password to use for proxy authentication.
Specifying B<--proxy-user=ask> will cause urpmi to prompt for a username
and a password.

=back

=head2 Debugging Options

=over

=item B<--debug>

Proposes a very verbose mode.

=item B<--debug-librpm>

Proposes a very verbose mode (similar to rpm -vv)

=item B<--deploops>

Print warnings when packages cannot be ordered properly due to dependancy loops.

=item B<--bug> I<directory>

Create a bug report in I<directory>. You have to send a compressed archive
of the directory to the urpmi maintainer for the bug being (probably)
reproduced. See L</"BUG REPORTS"> below.

=item B<--env> I<directory>

Use a different environment directly from a bug report to replay a bug.
The argument is the same argument given to B<--bug> option.


=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

    urpmi ssh://foo@bar.net/home/foo/test.rpm

Fetch F</home/foo/test.rpm> from server bar.net over ssh using user foo.
You can use a public key or enter your password.

    urpmi --media foo- --auto-select

Fetch all the updates from media containing C<foo-> in their name.

=head1 FILES

See urpmi.files(5).

=head1 EXIT CODES

=over

=item 1

Command line inconsistency.

=item 2

Problem registering local packages.

=item 3

Source packages not retrievable.

=item 4

Medium is not selected.

=item 5

Medium already
exists.

=item 6

Unable to save configuration.

=item 7

urpmi database locked.

=item 8

Unable to read or create bug report.

=item 9

Unable to open rpmdb.

=item 10

Some files are missing for installation.

=item 11

Some transactions failed but not all.

=item 12

All transactions failed.

=item 13

Some files are missing and some transactions failed but not all.

=item 14

Some files are missing and all transactions failed.

=item 15

No package installed (when using --expect-install)

=item 16

Bad signature

=item 17

Some packages couldn't be installed or upgraded

=back

=head1 BUG REPORTS

If you find a bug in urpmi please report it using the command:

    urpmi --bug bug_name_as_directory <other arguments>

This will automatically create a directory called F<bug_name_as_directory>
containing necessary files to reproduce it if possible. I<< <other
arguments> >> represent the command-line arguments you noticed the bug
with (e.g. C<--auto-select> or a list of rpm names). Please test the
report using

    urpmi --env bug_name_as_directory <other arguments>

to check that the bug is still here. Obviously, only reproducible bugs can
be resolved. For sending the report, make a tarball of this directory and
send it directly to the current maintainer with a description of what you
think is wrong.

=head1 CONTRIBUTING

One can find the git repository / version-control repository (VCS) here:

L<http://gitweb.mageia.org/software/rpm/urpmi/> .

=head1 AUTHOR

Thierry Vignaud <tv@mageia.org> (current maintainer),
Pascal Rigaux (original author),
FranE<ccedil>ois Pons, Rafael Garcia-Suarez 

=head1 SEE ALSO

urpmi.addmedia(8), urpmi.update(8), urpmi.removemedia(8), urpme(8),
urpmf(8), urpmq(8), urpmi.cfg(5), urpmi.files(5).

=cut

