=head1 NAME

nossui - dialog-based frontend to noss

=head1 USAGE

  nossui [options] ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<nossui> is a L<dialog(1)>-based frontend to the L<noss(1)> feed reader and
aggregator. Most of the regular functionality in L<noss(1)> should be
accessible from this script.

Just like with L<noss(1)>, B<nossui> must be given a list of feeds to
aggregate via a feeds file. Consult the B<Feeds File> section in the
L<noss(1)> manual for documentation on the format of a feeds file.

B<nossui> can also have some of its behavior tweaked through a L<noss(1)>
configuration file. Consult the B<CONFIGURATION> section in the
L<noss(1)> manual for more information on the format of a configuration file
and the available configuration options.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-c> I<file>

Specify path to the L<noss(1)> configuration file to use.

=item B<-D> I<dir>

Specify path to directory to use as the L<noss(1)> data directory.

=item B<-f> I<file>

Specify path to the L<noss(1)> feeds file to use.

=item B<-h>

Print usage message and exit.

=item B<-v>

Print version and copyright information, then exit.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

Consult the B<ENVIRONMENT> section in the L<noss(1)> manual for
a list of recognized environment variables.

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Samuel Young, E<lt>samyoung12788@gmail.comE<gt>.

This project's source can be found on its
L<Codeberg page|https://codeberg.org/1-1sam/noss.git>. Comments and pull
requests are welcome!

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2025 Samuel Young

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<dialog(1)>, L<noss(1)>

=cut

# vim: expandtab shiftwidth=4
