#DistZilla: +PodWeaver
#PODNAME: Lab::Measurement::Installation
#ABSTRACT: Installation guide for Lab::Measurement

__END__

=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Lab::Measurement::Installation - Installation guide for Lab::Measurement

=head1 VERSION

version 3.682

=head1 Introduction

Since Lab::Measurement does not contain any device driver code itself, its installation is 
pretty straightforward. However, before you can actually use it, you will have to install
a driver binding back-end, such as Lab::VISA or Linux-GPIB, plus its dependencies. Please 
see the documentation of these packages for more details.

=head1 Installation on Windows

=over

=item * Install L<Strawberry Perl|http://strawberryperl.com/download/5.20.3.3/strawberry-perl-5.20.3.3-32bit.msi>. If you want to use NI-VISA, see the comments on supported perl versions in L<Lab::VISA::Installation>

=item * Install gnuplot 5 (not mandatory)

=over

=item * L<Download|http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=2055>, extract and put it somewhere

=item * Add the directory containing C<gnuplot.exe> to the path:
My Computer => Properties => Advanced => Environment Variables

=back

=item * Build and install. Open cmd.exe and run

 cpan -T Lab::Measurement

=item * If you need the NI-VISA backend for your instruments follow L<Lab::VISA's installation guide|Lab::VISA::Installation>

=item * For Zurich Instruments devices you need to install L<Lab::Zhinst>.

=item * Have fun!

=back

=head1 Installation on Linux

=over

=item * In case your Linux distribution provides ready-made packages, use these
as far as possible. Full support for Lab::Measurement is  provided, e.g., by L<Gentoo Linux|https://www.gentoo.org/>.

=item * Install cpanminus, make, gcc and gnuplot
(you can use your package manager).

=item * Install Lab::Measurement (as root):

 cpanm Lab::Measurement

=item * If you use GPIB, you need the
L<Linux-GPIB|http://linux-gpib.sourceforge.net> drivers, library
and Perl bindings. See the short installation and configuration guide in
L<Lab::Measurement::Backends>.

=item * If you use VXI-11/Lan and/or USBTMC connections you will need to
install the L<Lab::VXI11> and L<USB::TMC> distributions. The documentation of
these modules contains detailed installation instructions.

=item * Have fun!

=back

=head2 Notes

If you want to install Lab::Measurement and its dependencies into your home
directory, please take a look at L<plenv|https://github.com/tokuhirom/plenv> or
L<perlbrew|https://perlbrew.pl/>. 

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2019 by the Lab::Measurement team; in detail:

  Copyright 2011-2012  Andreas K. Huettel
            2016       Simon Reinhardt
            2017       Andreas K. Huettel, Simon Reinhardt


This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
