=head1 NAME

Convert::X509 - interface module to help analizing X509 data

=head1 SYNOPSYS

 use Convert::X509;
 use Data::Dumper;

 my $d;
 local $/;

 open (F,'<', 'request.req');
# binmode(F);
# recommended for DER encoding, doesn't for BASE64
 $d = Convert::X509::Request->new(<F>);
 print 'Dumping request object:',Dumper ($d);
 # ! scalar context
 my $subj = $d->subject('cp1251','cp866') ; # localized Cyrillic
 print "\n",'CN: ', $subj->{'CN'}[0];

 open (F,'<', 'certificate.cer');
# binmode(F);
 $d = Convert::X509::Certificate->new(<F>,1); #debug flag
 print "\n\n",'Dumping certificate object:',Dumper ($d);
 # ! list context; UTF -> KOI8-R convertion
 print 'Issuer: ',join(',',$d->issuer('','koi8-r')), "\n",
  'valid from ',[$d->from()]->[0], ' to (exactly) ', scalar($d->to);

 open (F,'<', 'crl.crl');
# binmode(F);
 $d = Convert::X509::CRL->new(<F>);
 print "\n",'Dumping CRL object:',Dumper ($d);
 my ($s) = sort {$d->{'crl'}{$a}{'date'}{'utcTime'} <=> $d->{'crl'}{$b}{'date'}{'utcTime'}}
  keys %{$d->{'crl'}}; # example, take "first" serial
 print 'Revocation reason for the earliest revoked certificate N ',$s,' : ',$d->reason($s),"\n",
  'Get next CRL update ', scalar($d->next), ' from', "\n",
  join("\n or\n", $d->cdp);
        
=head1 DESCRIPTION

Convert::X509 really consists of six parts.

1) Convert::X509 itself just for convinient usage.

2) Convert::X509::Parser for internal usage (contains almost everything -
ASN.1 sructure, OIDs "database", base data-processing, most logic and code).

3,4,5) Request, Certificate and CRL to parse respectively requests, certificates and crl-s.
Almost any valueble data could be easely extracted directly from returned object
(look in Dumper output).
For some convinience, there are a few methods with self-explaining names.

6) Take a look on Convert::X509::minipkcs7 - it gets serials/oids from PKCS7 (encrypted/signed) messages.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

Constructor, creates a new object.
It takes a parameter which contains req/cert/crl itself -
both DER and BASE64 encoding supported.

FYI: be careful with binary and ASCII Base64 data been readed from file.
For binary form (DER) you must do "binmode", for Base64 - have NOT.
Check if returned object is defined.

You can set debug parameter to get a bit more debugging information
 ...->new(<DATA>,1);

=head2 subject

Applicable to Request and Certificate.

Result of method differs for scalar and list context:
 - a hash-reference like {'C'=>['org'], 'OU'=>['cpan','search']};
 values list often contains only one element, but many in general
 - a list like ('CN=Name Surname','C=RU','L=Moscow')

X509 data may contains unicode strings,
so in general we have to decode it to localized one-byte oriented string.
It is the _second_ parameter (result codepage) subject method could accept.

But sometimes X509 data contains already "localized" one-byte string.
And its codepage (_first_ param accepted by subject)
can be different for console.

That's why subject can get up to two codepages subject(cp_from,cp_to)
(look Encode.pm).
And pretty print subject with russian strings may looks like
subject('cp1251','cp866') for Windows (R) console
and subject('','koi8-r') for FreeBSD console.

=head2 issuer

Applicable to Certificate and CRL.

See 'subject' for details
(i.e. localization, scalar/list context)

=head2 from

Applicable to Certificate and CRL.

Return a date-time (pure ANSI format) object is valid from.
Result differs for scalar and list context:
 - a string like '2008-02-29 09:00:01'
 - a 2 elements list like ('2008-02-29', '09:00:01');

!Important note!
It deals only with utcTime-formatted value (no GeneralizedTime support)

=head2 to

Applicable to Certificate and CRL.

Return a date-time (pure ANSI format) object is valid to.
See 'from' for details.

=head2 next

Applicable to CRL only.

Return a date-time (pure ANSI format) next CRL publish.
See 'from' for details.

=head2 expired

Applicable to Certificate and CRL.

Does object have been expired ?
Simply return (TO<NOW or FROM>NOW)

=head2 eku (EnhancedKeyUsage)

Applicable to Request and Certificate.

Returns a list with EKU OIDs (their descriptions if they are in OIDs hash
i.e. wellknown).

=head2 keyusage

Applicable to Request and Certificate.

Returns a list with descriptions for installed bits.

=head2 serial

Applicable to Certificate and CRL.

Returns serial in hexadecimal view.

=head2 reason

Applicable to CRL only.

Returns a revocation description for certificate with given serial.
If reason totally hasn't been specified - returns 'Unspecified' anyway.

=head2 cdp

Applicable to Certificate and CRL.

Returns list of CRL distribution point

=head2 aia

Applicable to Certificate only.

Returns list of Authority Information Access locations

=head1 TODO

=over 4

=item *

More supplemental functions.

=item *

More documentation.

=item *

More tests.

=item *

More OIDs/ASN structures.

=back

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

These modules were created with initial ideas on the Crypt::X509 package.
Thanks to its authors
Mike Jackson <mj@sci.fi>, 
Alexander Jung <alexander.w.jung@gmail.com>,
Duncan Segrest <duncan@gigageek.info>;

And also
Norbert Klasen (author of x509decode script, which was contributed to Convert::ASN1 in 2002)
and
Graham Barr <gbarr@pobox.com> (author of Convert::ASN1 package).

=head1 P.S.

Your PKCS#xx structures may contain many unusual things, which I haven't ever seen.
Mail me any suggestions. And do not afraid to look inside modules!
I hope they are quite simple.

=head1 AUTHOR

Leonid Cherepanov <grey.leo/gmail.com>

=cut
