=head1 NAME

Imgur::API::Model::GalleryImage

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=over 4

The data model formatted for gallery images.

=back

=cut

=head1 FIELDS
 
=item 
C<id I<string>>

=over 4

The ID for the image

=back


=item 
C<title I<string>>

=over 4

The title of the image.

=back


=item 
C<description I<string>>

=over 4

Description of the image.

=back


=item 
C<datetime I<integer>>

=over 4

Time inserted into the gallery, epoch time

=back


=item 
C<type I<string>>

=over 4

Image MIME type.

=back


=item 
C<animated I<boolean>>

=over 4

is the image animated

=back


=item 
C<width I<integer>>

=over 4

The width of the image in pixels

=back


=item 
C<height I<integer>>

=over 4

The height of the image in pixels

=back


=item 
C<size I<integer>>

=over 4

The size of the image in bytes

=back


=item 
C<views I<integer>>

=over 4

The number of image views

=back


=item 
C<bandwidth I<integer>>

=over 4

Bandwidth consumed by the image in bytes

=back


=item 
C<deletehash I<string>>

=over 4

OPTIONAL, the deletehash, if you're logged in as the image owner

=back


=item 
C<link I<string>>

=over 4

The direct link to the the image. (Note: if fetching an animated GIF that was over 20MB in original size, a .gif thumbnail will be returned)

=back


=item 
C<gifv I<string>>

=over 4

OPTIONAL, The .gifv link. Only available if the image is animated and type is 'image/gif'.

=back


=item 
C<mp4 I<string>>

=over 4

OPTIONAL, The direct link to the .mp4. Only available if the image is animated and type is 'image/gif'.

=back


=item 
C<mp4_size I<integer>>

=over 4

OPTIONAL, The Content-Length of the .mp4. Only available if the image is animated and type is 'image/gif'. Note that a zero value (0) is possible if the video has not yet been generated

=back


=item 
C<looping I<boolean>>

=over 4

OPTIONAL, Whether the image has a looping animation. Only available if the image is animated and type is 'image/gif'.

=back


=item 
C<vote I<string>>

=over 4

The current user's vote on the album. null if not signed in or if the user hasn't voted on it.

=back


=item 
C<favorite I<boolean>>

=over 4

Indicates if the current user favorited the image. Defaults to false if not signed in.

=back


=item 
C<nsfw I<boolean>>

=over 4

Indicates if the image has been marked as nsfw or not. Defaults to null if information is not available.

=back


=item 
C<comment_count I<int>>

=over 4

Number of comments on the gallery image.

=back


=item 
C<topic I<string>>

=over 4

Topic of the gallery image.

=back


=item 
C<topic_id I<integer>>

=over 4

Topic ID of the gallery image.

=back


=item 
C<section I<string>>

=over 4

If the image has been categorized by our backend then this will contain the section the image belongs in. (funny, cats, adviceanimals, wtf, etc)

=back


=item 
C<account_url I<string>>

=over 4

The username of the account that uploaded it, or null.

=back


=item 
C<account_id I<integer>>

=over 4

The account ID of the account that uploaded it, or null.

=back


=item 
C<ups I<integer>>

=over 4

Upvotes for the image

=back


=item 
C<downs I<integer>>

=over 4

Number of downvotes for the image

=back


=item 
C<points I<integer>>

=over 4

Upvotes minus downvotes

=back


=item 
C<score I<integer>>

=over 4

Imgur popularity score

=back


=item 
C<is_album I<boolean>>

=over 4

If it's an album or not

=back


=item 
C<in_most_viral I<boolean>>

=over 4

Indicates if the image is in the most viral gallery or not.

=back



=head1 EXAMPLE


 {
   "success" : true,
   "status" : 200,
   "data" : {
      "views" : 625622,
      "vote" : null,
      "animated" : false,
      "is_album" : false,
      "datetime" : 1349051625,
      "account_id" : 384077,
      "score" : 18935622,
      "width" : 2490,
      "height" : 3025,
      "account_url" : "saponifi3d",
      "ups" : 1889,
      "title" : "My most recent drawing. Spent over 100 hours. I'm pretty proud of it.",
      "comment_count" : 10,
      "size" : 618969,
      "type" : "image/jpeg",
      "downs" : 58,
      "points" : 1831,
      "bandwidth" : 387240623718,
      "id" : "OUHDm",
      "section" : "pics",
      "description" : null
   }
}



=cut

=head1 SEE ALSO

http://api.imgur.com/models/galleryimage


