
=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Lingua::Guess - A statistical language guesser

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    
    use utf8;
    use Lingua::Guess;
    my $guesser = Lingua::Guess->new ();
    my @lines = split (/\n/, <<EOF);
    This is a test of the language checker
    Verifions que le détecteur de langues marche
    Sprawdźmy, czy odgadywacz języków pracuje
    EOF
    for my $line (@lines) {
        my $guess = $guesser->simple_guess ($line);
        print "'$line' was $guess\n";
    }


produces output

    'This is a test of the language checker' was english
    'Verifions que le détecteur de langues marche' was french
    'Sprawdźmy, czy odgadywacz języków pracuje' was polish


(This example is included as L<F<synopsis.pl>|https://fastapi.metacpan.org/source/BKB/Lingua-Guess-0.02/examples/synopsis.pl> in the distribution.)


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module attempts to guess what human language a piece of text is
written in.  This is a fork of a module called Language::Guess, which
was deleted from CPAN by its author.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

    my $lg = Lingua::Guess->new ();

Make a new object. This takes a hash as argument with the following keys:

=over

=item modeldir

The location of the training data. If this is not supplied, the
training data supplied with the module is used.

=back

=head2 guess

This method returns arrayref of hashes in the form 

    [{name => NAME, score => SCORE}]

where C<score> represents the likelihood of the language given by
C<name> as a fractional probability.

=head2 simple_guess

    my $name = simple_guess ($text);

This method returns a one-word string containing the English name of
the guessed language.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

=over

=item Carp

L<Carp/croak> is used to report errors.

=item File::Spec::Functions

L<File::Spec::Functions/catfile> is used in reading the training data files.

=item Unicode::Normalize

L<Unicode::Normalize/NFC> is used to normalize inputs.

=item Unicode::UCD

L<Unicode::UCD/charinfo> is used to get information about characters

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<Text::Guess::Language>

=item L<Text::Language::Guess>

=item L<Language::Guess|http://cpan.metacpan.org/authors/id/M/MC/MCEGLOWS/> at backpan.perl.org

=back

=head1 BUGS

The module has a number of oddities, which I'll slowly be trying to
resolve.

=over

=item

The module will instantly decide that something is Korean or Japanese
if it has just one Korean or Japanese letter in it. That means that,
for example, if you give it a Wikipedia page to guess the language, it
will seize upon the text in the interlanguage link and instantly
proclaim it to be in Korean or Japanese, regardless of how much other
text there may be.

=item

The guessed language is returned as a lower-case English name of the
language rather than an ISO language code.

=back

=head1 STANDALONE SCRIPT

A standalone script called C<linguaguess> is installed with the
module. It requires L<Unicode::UTF8> and L<File::Slurper> to be
installed locally. These modules are not dependencies of
Lingua::Guess.

=head1 HISTORY

This module used to be called Language::Guess. It was released in
2004. It was deleted from CPAN at an unknown date, but not before two
Python forks, L<https://pypi.python.org/pypi/guess-language>, and
L<https://bitbucket.org/spirit/guess_language> and one C++ fork
L<https://websvn.kde.org/branches/work/sonnet-refactoring/common/nlp/guesslanguage.cpp>,
had been created. It was restored to CPAN under the title
Lingua::Guess by Ben Bullock on 17th April 2017. Changes to the
original module include

=over

=item Removal of Unicode upgrading

For some reason, the module itself, which contains no non-ASCII, had
"use utf8;" at the top of it, and the test file, which contained
various languages, had no "use utf8;". The module was also upgrading
all input bytes with L<Encode/_utf8_on> rather than using
L<Encode/decode_utf8>. This behaviour was completely excised from the
module.

=item Training data moved into module's space

The training data was moved into the module's space using the method
described in L<Acme::Include::Data>. L</modeldir> was given a default
value of this directory.

=item Documentation expanded

Most of the methods weren't documented at all in the original module.

=item Bugs fixed

Two eleven year old bugs in the L<bug queue for
Language::Guess|https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Language-Guess>
were fixed.

=item train method removed

An undocumented, unused, and untested method called "train" was
removed from the module.

=back

I have made no attempt to contact the author of the software Maciej
Ceglowski, nor have I applied for namespace permission before creating
this fork, but simply renamed it.

=head1 COPYRIGHT
	
(c) 2004 National Institute for Technology and Liberal Education

=head1 LICENSE

This software is released under version 2 of the GNU General Public
License.

=head1 MAINTAINER

This module is maintained by Ben Bullock <bkb@cpan.org>.

=head1 AUTHOR
	
Maciej Ceglowski
