=head1 NAME

FAQ about smoke database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    lynx http://cpanplus.keradel.com/cgi-bin/smoke_db.cgi

=head1 FAQ

=over 4

=item B<What is it?>

An application that parses smoke-reports for perl-current and puts the
results in a database.

=item B<Why is it?>

This allows for a simple overview of the build status on as wide a
variety of supported platforms (operating system/architecture) as possible.

=item B<Where do the reports come from?>

From: 

  nttp://nntp.perl.org/perl.daily-build.reports

Which is basically a mirror of the C<smokers-reports@perl.org>
mailing list.

=item B<How long before one can see a report in this database that appears on the newsgroup?>

12 hours maximum.

=item B<How does one submit reports?>

Use Test-Smoke available on CPAN:

  http://search.cpan.org/author/ABELTJE/Test-Smoke/

=item B<What is Test-Smoke?>

Extract of README: The perl core smoke test suite is a set of simple 
scripts that try to run the perl core tests on as many configurations as 
possible and combine that into a easy to parse report.

The perl source tree is refreshed using rsync to the latest level of the
perl development branch before the smoke tests start.

=item B<How does one use it on a *nix box?>

Read README. Run perl configsmoke.pl.

=item B<How does one use it on a windows box?>

Get rsync(from cygwin). Read <perl_src>/README.win32.
Choose a compiler from Borland, MinGW, Cygwin or Visual.
And run perl configsmoke.pl

=item B<Euh... I don't see my report!>

Send me a mail: alian@cpan.org

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

These FAQ were written and conceived by Alain Barbet <alain@cpan.org>
with some help from Abe Timmerman <abeltje@cpan.org>

=cut
