=head1 NAME

Mojo::UserAgent::CookieJar::Role::Persistent - Persist cookies to
Netscape file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # Add role to existing CookieJar in UserAgent, then load cookies
  $ua->cookie_jar->with_roles('+Persistent')->load;
  
  # After a response which adds cookies e.g. logging into a website
  $ua->cookie_jar->save;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Provides methods for saving and loading of cookies to the Netscape file
format.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

Mojo::UserAgent::CookieJar::Role::Persistent implements the following
attributes.

=head2 file

  my $file = $cookie_jar->file;
  my $cookie_jar = $cookie_jar->file('cookies.txt');

File to save/load cookies to/from, defaults to 'cookies.txt'.

=head2 expires_in

  my $cb = $cookie_jar->expires_in;
  my $cookie_jar = $cookie_jar->expires_in(sub { time + (60*10) });

A callback used to determine the expiration time, defaults to current
time + 10 minutes.

=head2 session

  my $bool = $cookie_jar->session;
  my $cookie_jar = $cookie_jar->session($bool);

Include session cookies in output, defaults to 1.

=head1 METHODS

Mojo::UserAgent::CookieJar::Role::Persistent implements the following
methods.

=head2 save

  $cookie_jar->save;

Saves the cookies in the CookieJar to file.

=head2 load

  $cookie_jar->load;

Adds cookies from file into the CookieJar.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

=over 4

=item Grinnz

Reviewed a draft implementation.

=item sri

Advised on examples in documentation.

=back

=head1 TODO

=over 4

=item Write a test suite

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

CandyAngel <candyangel@electricjungle.org>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2017 CandyAngel <candyangel@electricjungle.org>.
All rights reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself. See L<perlartistic>.  This program
is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
