
=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Hazy::Cosmic::Jive - stringify floating point numbers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Hazy::Cosmic::Jive float_to_string;
    my $string = float_to_string (0.1);

=head1 VERSION

This document describes Hazy::Cosmic::Jive version 0.02
corresponding to git commit 769de3b79334706126eeb913508d0ae17656f609.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is an experimental module related to "stringification"
(converting an NV into a PV) of floating point numbers.

This module is a helper for the L</JSON::Create> serializer, intended
to test out floating point serialization without inconveniencing users
of that module with a multiplicity of testing versions.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 float_to_string

    my $string = float_to_string (0.1);

Convert an internal representation of a floating point number into a
string representation, bypassing Perl's system in favour of our own
method.

If the argument is not a floating point number, this prints a warning
L</Not a number> and returns the undefined value.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over

=item Not a number

The input is not a number.

=item Error %d printing number %g

An unexpected condition occurred printing a number.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

=over

=item 0.01

=over

=item * Test whether the methodology for splitting 64 bit floating point
numbers is valid for a variety of CPAN testers' machines.

=item * Test whether sprintf results are consistent over CPAN testers'
machines.

=back

=item 0.02

=over

=item * Test handling of 10.0

=item * Test with uint64_t rather than bit flags

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head2 CPAN modules

=over

=item L<JSON::Create>

=item L<Data::Float>

=back

=head2 Other references

=over

=item L<http://babbage.cs.qc.cuny.edu/IEEE-754.old/Decimal.html>

Convert decimal to floating point binary representation.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Ben Bullock, <bkb@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENCE

This package and associated files are copyright (C) 
2016
Ben Bullock.

You can use, copy, modify and redistribute this package and associated
files under the Perl Artistic Licence or the GNU General Public
Licence.
