# Copyright (c) 2024 Löwenfelsen UG (haftungsbeschränkt)
# Copyright (c) 2024 Philipp Schafft

# licensed under Artistic License 2.0 (see LICENSE file)

# ABSTRACT: Work with Tag databases
# PODNAME: Data::TagDB::Tutorial

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Data::TagDB::Tutorial - Work with Tag databases

=head1 VERSION

version v0.05

=head1 Overview

L<Data::TagDB> allows to store semantic data (universal tags) in a SQL based database.

The database contains tags and links connected to those tags. Tags generally represent a subject,
while links represent connection between subjects.

=head2 Tags

A tag (in universal tags) represents any kind of subject. Most tags fall into one of two categories:
I<abstract> and I<specific>.

I<Abstract> tags are generally concepts like "tree" or "colour".
I<Specific> tags represent instances of those. For example the planet Earth, the tree in front of the building, or the file containing yesterday's work.

Tags itself do not hold any data. All data is stored in I<links>.

See also L<Data::TagDB::Tutorial::WellKnown>.

=head2 Links

I<Links> store the data in database. There are two types of links: I<relations> and I<metadata>.

=head3 Relations

I<Relations> provide a relation between two tags. An example would be "The colour of the house is blue.".
In this case the relation consists of three parts:
The I<tag> they are applied to ("the house"),
the I<relation> that connects both tags ("the colour is"),
and the I<related> tag that is applied ("blue").

B<Note:>
Each I<link> (and therefore also each I<relation>) as a property I<tag> and I<relation>.
This double use of terms can cause confusion.

B<Note:>
All parts of a relation are tags. Non of it's properties are special.

In addition each relation also includes a I<context> and I<filter>.

The I<context> is used to provide a scope in which the link is valid. For example a context could be "English", or "the 90s".
If the I<context> is C<undef> the link is valid without any restrictions.

The I<filter> provides a way to limit the scope to which a relation is applied to. This is only used by special relations.
Therefore the I<filter> property is virtually always C<undef>.

=head3 Metadata

I<Metadata> are considered degenerated I<relations>. They provide additional information about a tag like I<relations>, however
they do not point to a I<related> tag but to raw data.

The I<related> property is replaced by three new properties: I<type>, I<encoding>, and I<data>.

I<data> provides a raw bit string while I<type> and I<encoding> define how the bit string is to be understood.
I<type> defines the type of data that is stored. For example "string" or "integer".
I<encoding> defines the way the value of the given type is stored. For example "ASCII digits" or "32 bit unsigned integer".

B<Note:>
Both I<type> and I<encoding> are often C<undef>.
If they are C<undef> the default values are used. A I<relation> can define a default type,
and a I<type> can define a default encoding.

B<Note:>
L<Data::TagDB> and L<Data::TagDB::Metadata> use the property C<data_raw> for the raw bitstring that is stored in the relation.
The virtual member I<data> is added that contains a decoded copy of C<data_raw>.

Beside I<type>, I<encoding>, and I<data> metadata has the same I<tag>, I<relation>, and I<context> properties as relations.
I<filter> is always C<undef> for I<metadata> and skipped in the API.

=head2 Identifiers

To allow tags to be recalled L</Metadata> is set on them containing I<identifiers>.
This is done using the standard tag C<also-shares-identifier> as I<relation>.
The I<type> is set to the corresponding type of the identifier.

B<Note:>
L<Data::TagDB> implements helper functions. It is generally not needed to interact with identifiers on the
link level. However it is critical to have some basic understanding.

Identifiers may or may not be globally unique (the identifier is not never reused, not even in other databases).
An example for globally unique identifiers are UUIDs. An example for non-unique identifiers are tag names.

Any locally unique (never reused in the same database, but may be used in other databases) identifier
must have I<context> set to the context to which they are unique.
Examples of such locally unique identifiers are are classic numeric primary keys as common in SQL based databases.

B<Note:>
Locally unique identifiers are dissuaded for reasons of their added complexity. They are also prone to incorrect implementations.

B<Note:>
Non-unique identifiers may have I<context> set. This can for example be used to define tag names in multiple languages.

B<Recommendation:>
It is strongly recommended to use a new random UUID for new tags as a globally unique identifier.
(Tags generated using a generator have an UUID already set. See L<Data::TagDB::Factory> for details.)
While L<Data::TagDB> does not require a UUID to be set other software may.
It is also recommended to set a tag name.
If the name of the tag is subject to translation it is recommended to set it with the I<context> set
to C<default-context>.

=head1 Database connection

=head2 Database creation

To use a database it must be opened first. If it does not yet exist it needs to be created.
Creating a database also opens it. To do this you need the migrations module:

    use Data::TagDB::Migration;
    my Data::TagDB $db = Data::TagDB::Migration->create(...);

For example:

    my Data::TagDB $db = Data::TagDB::Migration->create('dbi:SQLite:dbname=MyDB.sqlite3');

After you initially created a database it is good to import some basic data.
This is used to provide structure to the database. The easiest way to do is using the migration module again like this:

    $db->migration->include(qw(Data::TagDB::WellKnown ...));

L<Data::TagDB::Migration/include> allows importing data known by other modules. See it's documentation for what it can include.
It is however recommended to at least include from L<Data::TagDB::WellKnown> as this enables all features supported by L<Data::TagDB>.

After the database is set up the handle can be used normally.

=head2 Opening and closing a database

Once a database has been created it can be opened like this:

    use Data::TagDB;
    my Data::TagDB $db = Data::TagDB->new('dbi:SQLite:dbname=MyDB.sqlite3');

After the database has been opened it can be used. When done it is best to close it:

    $db->disconnect;

But it is also closed when the handle is destroyed.

=head1 Tag creation

To fill the database with actual data there are two operations. Creating tags, and adding links to the tags.

To create a tag there are two ways. A tag can be manually created using L<Data::TagDB/create_tag> or
using L<Data::TagDB::Factory>.

Manual creation is most similar to creating a object in any database. You are free to do what you like
but you are also responsible to create a valid record. It is also faster.

When using L<Data::TagDB::Factory> the tag is created using a I<generator>. This will automatically
fill in some more data and ensure the record is valid. But it is also slower.

=head2 Manual creation

To manually create a tag use L<Data::TagDB/create_tag>.
The method takes two lists:
the unique identifiers for the tag and additional identifiers.
The unique identifiers are similar to a primary key. Only one tag can at any time have them (in any database). But it is possible to have more than one.
Additional identifiers are optional. They often include the name of the tag. They don't need to be unique.

A common call looks like:

    my Data::TagDB::Tag $tag = $db->create_tag([$db->wk->uuid => $uuid], [$db->wk->tagname => $name]);

If the tag already exists the function ensures that all identifiers are present in the database before returning.

=head2 Using a generator

A generator is usually used when a tag of a given type is created. It can be understood as a rule on transforming a so called I<hint> into a tag.
The generator normally sets the identifiers, the type, and maybe additional names and references.

The easiest way is to use a generator build into L<Data::TagDB::Factory>. But it is also possible to define own generators.

An example call would be:

    my Data::TagDB::Tag $tag = $db->factory->create_colour('#c0c0c0');

If a tag is already in the database the generator will add anything that is missing and return the tag.

=head1 Query a tag

To query a tag you need to to have an instance of L<Data::TagDB::Tag>.
The easiest way to find a tag is by one of it's identifiers.

A typical call looks like:

    my Data::TagDB::Tag $tag = $db->tag_by_id(uuid => $uuid);

Every query fundamentally works by asking the database for links (relations and metadata).
However, for some basic tasks the module has some base implementations build in.

=head2 Basic getters

A common example is to query the tag for it's I<displayname>.
The I<displayname> is often used when the tag needs to be displayed to a user.

A common call will look like:

    my $displayname = $tag->displayname;

The function always returns a string. (See L<Data::TagDB::Tag/displayname>)

Those basic getters may also cache the result for speed.
They also often employ relative complex rules.
For example the displayname getter will try different values (like title, name) to find the result.
And if none is found it will fall back to some alternatives (such as any identifier).

=head2 Individual queries

To perform individual queries you can all L<Data::TagDB/relation>, L<Data::TagDB/metadata>, or L<Data::TagDB/link>.
These functions are similar to a C<SELECT> on an SQL based database.
They take a list of query parameters to filter the result. An L<Data::TagDB::Iterator> is then returned with the results.

A common call looks like:

    my Data::TagDB::Iterator $iter = $db->relation(tag => $tag, relation => $db->wk->also_list_contains_also);

This will list the content of C<$tag> if C<$tag> is a list.

The list will contain elements of L<Data::TagDB::Relation>. If we want all tags that are contained we find them in the related property.

We can collect them into an array like this:

    my @list = $iter->collect('related');

This however will force all entries to be loaded into memory. It may be better to do:

    $iter->foreach(sub {
        my ($entry) = @_;
        my Data::TagDB::Tag $member_tag = $entry->related;
        # ...
    });

=head1 Performance

There are two main ways to improve performance. Caching and transactions.

=head2 Transactions

Transactions improve the by the database not needing to lock and unlock constantly.
This is mostly noticeable for write operations but is also valid for reading.

To support transactions L<Data::TagDB/begin_work>, L<Data::TagDB/commit>, and L<Data::TagDB/rollback> are provided.
They are proxy methods for L<DBI/begin_work>, L<DBI/commit>, and L<DBI/rollback>.

=head2 Caching

Caches can be used to keep tags instances from being destroyed.
This is done by first creating a new cache:

    my Data::TagDB::Cache $cache = $db->create_cache;

And then adding any tags to keep them alive:

    $cache->add($tag0, $tag1, ...);

You can have any amount of caches. E.g. if the the software uses a single database connection but handles multiple requests one could
have one global cache to cache the most relevant tags, and one per request cache to cache tags relevant to the request.

One the cache is destroyed, the tags will also be released (unless otherwise in use or hold by another cache).

=head1 AUTHOR

Löwenfelsen UG (haftungsbeschränkt) <support@loewenfelsen.net>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2024 by Löwenfelsen UG (haftungsbeschränkt) <support@loewenfelsen.net>.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The Artistic License 2.0 (GPL Compatible)

=cut
