=head1 NAME

populate - Syncronize the development web server with the CVS tree

=head1 SYNOPSIS

populate { -h | project_name } [ options... ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<populate> tool is the first stage of the three-tool release process.
It is used to synchronize the development web server documents area with the
CVS repository.

=head1 OPTIONS

There are a wide range of options to this tool. Unless using the C<-h>
option, the command line must include at least one project name. Other
options are:

=over

=item C<-h>

Print a short usage summary and terse explanation of the available options.
Exits immediately, even if passed with project names.

=item C<-t title>

When updating the I<topic-list> file, use C<title> in lieu of the project
name. The topic-list file is used by the release management system during
other stages, in constructing headers for data transmission, etc.

=item C<-r symbol>

Specificy a particular CVS/RCS tag for the CVS commands to retrieve during
the update of files from the CVS repository. Without this, CVS will update
using the most-recent (head) revisions of files.

=item C<-e addr>

If any errors occur that are deemed critical enough to warrant e-mail, this
will specify additional addresses. The person running the command, the
listed "owner" of the project, and the Webmaster Team are already targeted in
the e-mail, so this option need not reference any of those.

=item C<-cvsroot dir>

Specify an alternate CVSROOT value. This is rarely used, as the CVS
environment is very carefully managed by ATG.

=item C<-debug>

Enable some debugging-related output. This is mostly to keep users abreast
of what point within the process the tool is currently at.

=item C<-verbose>

Enable some additional informational messages within the tool. This differs
from C<-debug> in that the messages are more geared towards progress reporting
than iterating command-line options before command execution, for example.

=item C<-terse>

Suppress the majority of the "normal" output, resulting in less feedback
from the tool than is usually generated.

=item C<-log file>

Specify a different file name for logging output. The normal run of the
release tools generates some amount of logging data, used mainly as a
checklist in the case of problem diagnosis. If you wish the output to go to
a specific location, use this option. Note that if the file exists, it must
be writable by the user ID that the tools run B<as>, not your own. This is
generally I<idsweb>. If the file does not exist, it will be created and owned
by this UID.

=item C<-h>

Lastly, this option displays a brief summary of these options, then causes
the tool to exit, even if there are any projects specified.

=back

For any of the options besides C<-h>, one or more project names must be
specified. If more than one is passed, they are processed in the order
given. At the end of execution, you will be informed if any were not able
to successfully complete execution.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<stage>, L<release>, L<cvs>

=head1 CAVEATS

Rather than always force redundant processing, the B<stage> tool no longer
runs B<populate> unconditionally. It first checks that it is necessary to
run this tool.

=head1 AUTHOR

Randy J. Ray <randyr@nafohq.hp.com>

=head1 ENHANCEMENTS

Kevin Greene

=cut
