<body>
<div class="pod">
<!-- INDEX START -->
<h3 id="TOP">Index</h3>

<ul><li><a href="#NAME">NAME</a></li>
<li><a href="#SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</a></li>
<li><a href="#DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</a></li>
<li><a href="#METHODS">METHODS</a>
<ul><li><a href="#TOP-2">TOP</a></li>
<li><a href="#EXAMPLE">EXAMPLE</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#ATTRIBUTES">ATTRIBUTES</a>
<ul><li><a href="#EXAMPLE-2">EXAMPLE</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#ISSUES">ISSUES</a>
<ul><li><a href="#KNOWN_ISSUES">KNOWN ISSUES</a></li>
<li><a href="#UNKNOWN_ISSUES">UNKNOWN ISSUES</a>
<ul><li><a href="#EXAMPLE-3">EXAMPLE</a>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul><hr />
<!-- INDEX END -->

<h1 id="NAME">NAME</h1><p><a href="#TOP" class="toplink">Top</a></p>
<div id="NAME_CONTENT">
<p>A - Some demo POD</p>

</div>
<h1 id="SYNOPSIS">SYNOPSIS</h1><p><a href="#TOP" class="toplink">Top</a></p>
<div id="SYNOPSIS_CONTENT">
<pre>	use Pod::Xhtml;
	my $px = new Pod::Xhtml;

</pre>

</div>
<h1 id="DESCRIPTION">DESCRIPTION</h1><p><a href="#TOP" class="toplink">Top</a></p>
<div id="DESCRIPTION_CONTENT">
<p>This is a module to translate POD to Xhtml. Lorem ipsum <b>Dolor</b> in <cite>Dolor</cite> sit amet consectueur adipscing elit. Sed diam nomumny.
This is a module to translate POD to Xhtml. <a href="#Lorem">The Lorem entry</a> ipsum dolor sit amet
consectueur adipscing elit. Sed diam nomumny.
This is a module to translate <cite>POD</cite> to Xhtml. <strong>Lorem</strong> ipsum <i>dolor</i> sit amet
<code>consectueur adipscing</code> elit. .
This is a module to translate POD to Xhtml. See <a href="#Lorem">Lorem</a> ipsum dolor sit amet
consectueur adipscing elit. Sed diam <cite>nomumny</cite>. <a href="http://foo.bar/baz/">http://foo.bar/baz/</a></p>

</div>
<h1 id="METHODS">METHODS</h1><p><a href="#TOP" class="toplink">Top</a></p>
<div id="METHODS_CONTENT">
<dl>
	<dt>Nested blocks</dt>
	<dd>
		<p>Pod::Xhtml now supports nested over/item/back blocks:</p>
		<p>
			<ul>
					<li>Point 1				</li>
					<li>Point Number 2				</li>
					<li>Item three				</li>
					<li>Point four
<br /><br />Still point four
<br /><br /><pre>  This is verbatim text in a bulleted list

</pre></li>
</ul>

		</p>
<pre>  This is verbatim test in a regular list

</pre>
	</dd>
</dl>

</div>
<h2 id="TOP-2">TOP</h2>
<div id="TOP_CONTENT">
<p>This should NOT reference #TOP, unless the top of the page has had its id
changed, somehow, for some reason.</p>

</div>
<h2 id="EXAMPLE">EXAMPLE</h2>
<div id="EXAMPLE_CONTENT">
<p>This is the first example block.</p>

</div>
<h1 id="ATTRIBUTES">ATTRIBUTES</h1><p><a href="#TOP" class="toplink">Top</a></p>
<div id="ATTRIBUTES_CONTENT">
<dl>
	<dt>Lorem</dt>
	<dd>
		<p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectueur adipscing elit. Sed diam nomumny.</p>
	</dd>
	<dt>Ipsum</dt>
	<dd>
		<p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectueur adipscing elit. Sed diam nomumny.</p>
	</dd>
	<dt>Dolor( $foo )</dt>
	<dd>
		<p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectueur .... elit. Sed diam nomumny.</p>
	</dd>
</dl>

</div>
<h2 id="EXAMPLE-2">EXAMPLE</h2>
<div id="EXAMPLE_CONTENT-2">
<p>This is the second example block.</p>

</div>
<h1 id="ISSUES">ISSUES</h1><p><a href="#TOP" class="toplink">Top</a></p>
<div id="ISSUES_CONTENT">

</div>
<h2 id="KNOWN_ISSUES">KNOWN ISSUES</h2>
<div id="KNOWN_ISSUES_CONTENT">
<p>There are some issues known about. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectueur adipscing elit. Sed diam nomumny.
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectueur adipscing elit. Sed diam nomumny. SPACES&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ARE&nbsp;&nbsp;IMPORTANT</p>

</div>
<h2 id="UNKNOWN_ISSUES">UNKNOWN ISSUES</h2>
<div id="UNKNOWN_ISSUES_CONTENT">
<p>There are also some issues not known about. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectueur adipscing elit. Sed diam nomumny.
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectueur adipscing elit. Sed diam nomumny.</p>

</div>
<h3 id="EXAMPLE-3">EXAMPLE</h3>
<div id="EXAMPLE_CONTENT-3">
<p>This is the third example block.</p>

</div>
</div></body>
