=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Log::Report::Exception - a single generated event

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # created within a try block
  try { error "help!" };
  my $exception = $@->wasFatal;
  $exception->throw if $exception;

  $@->reportFatal;  # combination of above two lines

  my $message = $exception->message;   # the Log::Report::Message

  if($message->inClass('die')) ...
  if($exception->inClass('die')) ...   # same
  if($@->wasFatal(class => 'die')) ... # same

=head1 DESCRIPTION

In L<Log::Report|Log::Report>, exceptions are not as extended as available in
languages as Java: you do not create classes for them.  The only
thing an exception object does, is capture some information about
an (untranslated) report.

=head1 OVERLOADED

=over 4

=item overload: B<""> stringification

Produces "reason: message" via L<toString()|Log::Report::Exception/"Processing">.

=item overload: B<bool> boolean condition

Always returns C<true>: the exception object exists.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item $class-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

Create a new exception object, which is basically a C<message> which
was produced for a C<reason>.

 -Option     --Default
  message      <required>
  reason       <required>
  report_opts  +{ }

=over 2

=item message => Log::Report::Message

=item reason => $reason

=item report_opts => \%opts

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<isFatal>()

Returns whether this exception has a severity which makes it fatal
when thrown. [1.34] This can have been overruled with the C<is_fatal>
attribute.  See L<Log::Report::Util::is_fatal()|Log::Report::Util/"Reasons">.

» example: 

  if($ex->isFatal) { $ex->throw(reason => 'ALERT') }
  else { $ex->throw }

=item $obj-E<gt>B<message>( [$message] )

Change the C<$message> of the exception, must be a L<Log::Report::Message|Log::Report::Message>
object.

When you use a C<Log::Report::Message> object, you will get a new one
returned. Therefore, if you want to modify the message in an exception,
you have to re-assign the result of the modification.

» example: 

  $e->message->concat('!!')); # will not work!
  $e->message($e->message->concat('!!'));

  $e->message(__x"some message {xyz}", xyz => $xyz);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<reason>( [$reason] )

Z<>

=item $obj-E<gt>B<report_opts>()

Z<>

=back

=head2 Processing

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<inClass>($class|Regexp)

Check whether any of the classes listed in the message match C<$class>
(string) or the Regexp.  This uses L<Log::Report::Message::inClass()|Log::Report::Message/"Processing">.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<print>( [$fh] )

The default filehandle is STDOUT.

» example: 

  print $exception;  # via overloading
  $exception->print; # OO style

=item $obj-E<gt>B<throw>(%options)

Insert the message contained in the exception into the currently defined
dispatchers.  The C<throw> as method name is commonly known exception
related terminology for C<report>.

The C<%options> overrule the captured options to L<Log::Report::report()|Log::Report/"Report production and configuration">.
This can be used to overrule a destination.  Also, the reason can
be changed.

Returned is the LIST of dispatchers which have accepted the forwarded
exception.

» example: overrule defaults to report

  try { report {to => 'default'}, ERROR => 'oops!' };
  $@->reportFatal(to => 'syslog');

  my ($syslog) = $exception->throw(to => 'syslog');
  my @disps = $@->wasFatal->throw(reason => 'WARNING');

=item $obj-E<gt>B<toHTML>( [$locale] )

[1.11] Calls L<toString()|Log::Report::Exception/"Processing"> and then escapes HTML volatile characters.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<toString>( [$locale] )

Prints the reason and the message.  Differently from L<throw()|Log::Report::Exception/"Processing">, this
only represents the textual content: it does not re-cast the exceptions to
higher levels.

» example: printing exceptions

  print $_->toString for $@->exceptions;
  print $_ for $@->exceptions;   # via overloading

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Log-Report version 1.43,
built on December 05, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

For contributors see file ChangeLog.

This software is copyright (c) 2007-2025 by Mark Overmeer.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

