=head1 NAME

Sys::Hwloc::Cpuset - Class representing a hwloc cpuset object

=head1 SYNOPSIS

       use Sys::Hwloc;

       $set  = Sys::Hwloc::Cpuset->alloc;
       $oset = $set->dup;
       $set->copy( $oset );
       $set->free;

       $set->zero;
       $set->fill;
       $set->cpu( $id );
       $set->all_but_cpu( $id );
       $set->from_ulong( $mask );
       $set->from_ith_ulong( $i, $mask );
       $rc   = $set->from_string( $string );
       $rc   = $set->from_liststring( $string );
       $set->set( $id );
       $set->set_range( $ida, $ide );
       $set->set_ith_ulong( $i, $mask );
       $set->clr( $id );
       $set->clr_range( $ida, $ide );
       $set->singlify;

       $val  = $set->ulong;
       $val  = $set->to_ith_ulong( $i );
       $val  = $set->sprintf;
       $val  = $set->sprintf_list;
       @ids  = $set->ids;

       $rc   = $set->isset( $id );
       $rc   = $set->iszero;
       $rc   = $set->isfull;

       $id   = $set->first;
       $id   = $set->next( $previd );
       $id   = $set->last;

       $val  = $set->weight;

       $set->or( $oset );
       $set->and( $oset );
       $set->andnot( $oset );
       $set->xor( $oset );
       $set->not;

       $rc   = $set->intersects( $oset );
       $rc   = $set->includes( $oset );
       $rc   = $set->isincluded( $oset );
       $rc   = $set->isequal( $oset );
       $rc   = $set->compare( $oset );
       $rc   = $set->compare_first( $oset );


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Sys::Hwloc::Cpuset is the Perl namespace used for I<struct hwloc_cpuset>
data prior hwloc-1.1.

Since hwloc-1.1, this class is replaced by L<Sys::Hwloc::Bitmap>.

The Sys::Hwloc::Cpuset class provides an object-oriented interface
for hwloc C functions that act on cpuset and nodeset objects. In particular,
every hwloc C function that gets a I<hwloc_cpuset> pointer as first argument
has an OO-ish counterpart in Sys::Hwloc::Cpuset.

A Sys::Hwloc::Cpuset instance is created with B<hwloc_cpuset_alloc()> or
B<Sys::Hwloc::Cpuset-E<gt>alloc()>.

The underlying C data must become freed with B<hwloc_cpuset_free()> or
B<$cpuset-E<gt>free()>.

=head1 METHODS

Refer to L<http://www.open-mpi.org/projects/hwloc> for the full specification.

This section lists only methods that are specific to Sys::Hwloc. These are
methods, which have no pendants in the hwloc C API, or which behave differently
compared to their hwloc C API counterparts.

=over 4

=item B<alloc>

  $set = Sys::Hwloc::Cpuset->alloc();

Allocates and returns a cpuset. Returns a new Sys::Hwloc::Cpuset instance
on success, returns I<undef> on error.

=item B<free>

  $set->free();

Frees an allocated cpuset.

There is no automatic Perl destructor Sys::Hwloc::Cpuset::DESTROY.
That means, if an initialized cpuset variable goes out of scope or gets another value assigned,
the C cpuset is not freed. This conforms to the usage of the hwloc C API,
but unfortunately not to the rules of OO in Perl.

=item B<ids>

  @ids = $set->ids;

Returns the bits that are set in a cpuset as an array of unsigned numbers.

The method is a replacement of the hwloc C API macro pair B<hwloc_cpuset_foreach_begin> and B<hwloc_cpuset_foreach_end>.

The following example shows the use of the hwloc C API macros, and what the Perl B<ids> method does:

  /* This is C */
  unsigned id;
  hwloc_cpuset_foreach_begin(id, set) {
    printf("id = %u\n", id);
  }
  hwloc_cpuset_foreach_end();

  # This is Perl
  foreach $id ($set->ids) {
    printf "id = %u\n", $id;
  }

=item B<sprintf_list>

  $string = $set->sprintf_list

Returns a string containing the bits set in a cpuset as a comma-separated list of decimal numbers and ranges of numbers.
The format conforms to the B<List Format> of Linux cpusets, see L<cpuset>(7).

This method is not part of the hwloc C API.

The following example script will print "0-7,16,17,24-27".

  $set = Sys::Hwloc::Cpuset->alloc;
  $set->set_range(0,7);
  $set->set_range(16,17);
  $set->set_range(24,27);
  printf "%s\n", $set->sprintf_list;
  $set->free;

=item B<from_liststring>

  $rc = $set->from_liststring( $string );

Parses a Linux L<cpuset>(7) list format ASCII string and stores it in cpuset $set.

Returns 0 on success, -1 on error. If error, the content of $set is undefined.

This method is not part of the hwloc C API. It is the reverse of B<$string = $set-E<gt>sprintf_list>.

=item B<includes>

  $rc = $set->includes( $oset );

Tests wether $oset is part of $set.

This method is not part of the hwloc C API. It is equivalent to B<$oset-E<gt>isincluded($set)>.

=item B<or>

  $set->or( $oset );

ORes $set with $oset, similar to B<|=>. In hwloc-0.9 this method is named B<orset>.

The long version of this in pure hwloc-1.0 is:

  $tempset = hwloc_cpuset_alloc;
  hwloc_cpuset_or($tempset, $set, $oset);
  hwloc_cpuset_free($set);
  $set = $tempset;

=item B<and>

  $set->and( $oset );

ANDs $set with $oset, similar to B<&=>. In hwloc-0.9 this method is named B<andset>.

The long version of this in pure hwloc-1.0 is:

  $tempset = hwloc_cpuset_alloc;
  hwloc_cpuset_and($tempset, $set, $oset);
  hwloc_cpuset_free($set);
  $set = $tempset;

=item B<andnot>

  $set->andnot( $oset );

ANDs $set with the negation of $oset.

The long version of this in pure hwloc-1.0 is:

  $tempset = hwloc_cpuset_alloc;
  hwloc_cpuset_andnot($tempset, $set, $oset);
  hwloc_cpuset_free($set);
  $set = $tempset;

=item B<xor>

  $set->xor( $oset );

XORes $set with $oset, similar to B<^=>. In hwloc-0.9 this method is named B<xorset>.

The long version of this in pure hwloc-1.0 is:

  $tempset = hwloc_cpuset_alloc;
  hwloc_cpuset_xor($tempset, $set, $oset);
  hwloc_cpuset_free($set);
  $set = $tempset;

=item B<not>

  $set->not;

Negates $set.

The long version of this in pure hwloc-1.0 is:

  $tempset = hwloc_cpuset_alloc;
  hwloc_cpuset_not($tempset, $set);
  hwloc_cpuset_free($set);
  $set = $tempset;

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<hwloc>(7),
L<Sys::Hwloc::Topology>(3pm),
L<Sys::Hwloc::Obj>(3pm),
L<Sys::Hwloc::Bitmap>(3pm)


=head1 AUTHOR

Bernd Kallies, E<lt>kallies@zib.deE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2011 Zuse Institute Berlin

This package and its accompanying libraries is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GPL version 2.0,
or the Artistic License 2.0. Refer to LICENSE for the full license text.

=cut
