# $Id: Install.pod,v 1.2 2003/10/06 21:41:18 clajac Exp $

=pod

=head1 NAME

CPAN Installation

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This documentation describes how to install CPANXR on a host.

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

To run CPANXR you'll need the following installed on your host

 Database:
   MySQL 3.23 or later (developed using 4.0.14-standard)

 Apache:
   Apache 1.3 or later (developed using 1.3.28)
   mod_perl (developed using 1.27)

 Perl:
   Perl 5.6.0 or later

 Perl modules:
   DBI 1.37 (previous versions should work)
   DBD::mysql 2.9002 (previous versions should work)
   PPI 0.805
   CGI
   CGI::Carp
   Class::Autouse 1.0
   Class::Handle 0.4
   File::Spec 0.82
   File::Flat 0.9
   File::Find::Rule 0.11
   List::Util 1.11
   Test::ClassAPI
   Config::Tiny 1.1
   Config::Simple 4.55
   GraphViz 1.8
   Data::Page 0.18
   
 Other software:
   graphviz-1.10

=head1 INSTALLATION

These instructions assume your cwd is the unpacked CPANXR distribution.

=head2 Installing Perl modules

 % perl Makefile.PL
 % make
 % make test
 % make install

=head2 Configuring apache

If you want to run CPANXR under a virtual host, add the following to your httpd.conf.

 # Load the CPANXR Apache handler
 PerlModule CPANXR::Apache
 
 <VirtualHost *>
  # Replace this with the actual hostname to use
  ServerName cpanxr.mycompany.com

  # Change this to where you'll install the HTML support files
  DocumentRoot /var/www/cpanxr.mycompany.com

  <Location /cpanxr>
   PerlHandler CPANXR::Apache
   SetHandler  perl-script
  </Location>
 </VirtualHost>

=head2 Installing the HTML files

 % cp -R setup/html /var/www/cpanxr.mycompany.com
 % chmod -R 755 /var/www/cpanxr.mycompany.com
 % chown nobody:nogroup /var/www/cpanxr.mycompany

Change the path I</var/www/cpanxr.mycompany.com> to whatever you specified in your httpd.conf. Change nobody:nogroup to the user and group that apache is configured to runs as.

=head2 Installing and configuring the config file

 % cp setup/conf/cpanxr.conf /etc
 
Now, open I</etc/cpanxr.conf> and change to configuration to match your host. If your Apache runs under chroot, it is probablly wise to put XrRoot under the DocumentRoot.

=head2 Put some distributions in the XrRoot directory

The following assumes you have downloaded some Acme- modules and unpacked them into /var/cpan/

 % cp -R /var/cpan/Acme-* /var/cpanxr/dists/
 % chmod -R 755 /var/cpanxr/dists/
 % chown -R nobody:nogroup /var/cpanxr/dists

=head2 Install the database

 % mysql -uroot -p < setup/setup-mysql.sql

Will create a database named B<cpanxr>.

=head2 Run the indexer
 
 % cpanxr index

=head2 Test

Fire up your favorite web-browser and enter the URL to CPANXR on your host.

=cut
