# PODNAME: Lib::CPUInfo::Core
# ABSTRACT: CPUInfo Core object

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Lib::CPUInfo::Core - CPUInfo Core object

=head1 VERSION

version 0.001

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    my $index  = 0;
    my $core   = get_core($index);
    my $vendor = $core->vendor();
    ...

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 C<processor_start>

    my $start = $core->processor_start();

Returns an integer.

=head2 C<processor_count>

    my $count = $core->processor_count();

=head2 C<core_id>

    my $id = $core->core_id();

Returns an integer.

=head2 C<cluster>

    my $cluster = $core->cluster();

Returns the L<Lib::CPUInfo::Cluster> cluster object.

=head2 C<package>

    my $package = $core->package();

Returns the L<Lib::CPUInfo::Package> package object.

=head2 C<vendor>

    my $vendor = $core->vendor();

Returns the vendor string for the core.

Available values:

=over 4

=item * C<unknown>

=item * C<intel>

=item * C<amd>

=item * C<arm>

=item * C<qualcomm>

=item * C<apple>

=item * C<samsung>

=item * C<nvidia>

=item * C<mips>

=item * C<ibm>

=item * C<ingenic>

=item * C<via>

=item * C<cavium>

=item * C<broadcom>

=item * C<apm>

=item * C<huawei>

=item * C<hygon>

=item * C<texas_instruments>

=item * C<marvell>

=item * C<rdc>

=item * C<dmp>

=item * C<motorola>

=item * C<transmeta>

=item * C<cyrix>

=item * C<rise>

=item * C<nsc>

=item * C<sis>

=item * C<nexgen>

=item * C<umc>

=item * C<dec>

=back

=head2 C<uarch>

    my $uarch = $core->uarch();

Returns the uarch string for the core.

Available values:

=over 4

=item * C<unknown>

=item * C<p5>

=item * C<quark>

=item * C<p6>

=item * C<dothan>

=item * C<yonah>

=item * C<conroe>

=item * C<penryn>

=item * C<nehalem>

=item * C<sandy_bridge>

=item * C<ivy_bridge>

=item * C<haswell>

=item * C<broadwell>

=item * C<sky_lake>

=item * C<kaby_lake>

=item * C<palm_cove>

=item * C<sunny_cove>

=item * C<willamette>

=item * C<prescott>

=item * C<bonnell>

=item * C<saltwell>

=item * C<silvermont>

=item * C<airmont>

=item * C<goldmont>

=item * C<goldmont_plus>

=item * C<knights_ferry>

=item * C<knights_corner>

=item * C<knights_landing>

=item * C<knights_hill>

=item * C<knights_mill>

=item * C<xscale>

=item * C<k5>

=item * C<k6>

=item * C<k7>

=item * C<k8>

=item * C<k10>

=item * C<bulldozer>

=item * C<piledriver>

=item * C<steamroller>

=item * C<excavator>

=item * C<zen>

=item * C<zen2>

=item * C<geode>

=item * C<bobcat>

=item * C<jaguar>

=item * C<puma>

=item * C<arm7>

=item * C<arm9>

=item * C<arm11>

=item * C<cortex_a5>

=item * C<cortex_a7>

=item * C<cortex_a8>

=item * C<cortex_a9>

=item * C<cortex_a12>

=item * C<cortex_a15>

=item * C<cortex_a17>

=item * C<cortex_a32>

=item * C<cortex_a35>

=item * C<cortex_a53>

=item * C<cortex_a55r0>

=item * C<cortex_a55>

=item * C<cortex_a57>

=item * C<cortex_a65>

=item * C<cortex_a72>

=item * C<cortex_a73>

=item * C<cortex_a75>

=item * C<cortex_a76>

=item * C<cortex_a76ae>

=item * C<cortex_a77>

=item * C<neoverse_n1>

=item * C<neoverse_e1>

=item * C<scorpion>

=item * C<krait>

=item * C<kryo>

=item * C<falkor>

=item * C<saphira>

=item * C<denver>

=item * C<denver2>

=item * C<carmel>

=item * C<exynos_m1>

=item * C<exynos_m2>

=item * C<exynos_m3>

=item * C<exynos_m4>

=item * C<exynos_m5>

=item * C<mongoose_m1>

=item * C<mongoose_m2>

=item * C<meerkat_m3>

=item * C<meerkat_m4>

=item * C<swift>

=item * C<cyclone>

=item * C<typhoon>

=item * C<twister>

=item * C<hurricane>

=item * C<monsoon>

=item * C<mistral>

=item * C<vortex>

=item * C<tempest>

=item * C<lightning>

=item * C<thunder>

=item * C<thunderx>

=item * C<thunderx2>

=item * C<pj4>

=item * C<brahma_b15>

=item * C<brahma_b53>

=item * C<xgene>

=item * C<dhyana>

=back

=head2 C<cpuid>

    my $cpuid = $core->cpuid();

Returns an integer.

This is only available on C<x86_64>.

=head2 C<midr>

    my $midr = $core->midr();

Returns an integer.

This is only available on ARM or ARM64.

=head2 C<frequency>

    my $frequency = $cluster->frequency();

Returns an integer.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sawyer X

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2021 by Sawyer X.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
