=head1 NAME

Myco::Admin - myco System Administration Guide.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This guide is intended for the system administrator in charge of installing,
configuring, or tuning a myco system.

=head1 QUICK INSTALLATION

Follow these instructions to install myco without having to think about
anything.

=over 4

=item 1

Install Perl 5.6.1 or greater (5.8.2 or later strongly recommended - 5.8.0 has
known issues with C<tie> and should be avoided.

=item 2

Install PostgreSQL 7.1 or greater.

=item 3

Install myco -- As root, use the CPAN module to install the myco framework perl
modules plus all CPAN prerequisite modules.

 perl -MCPAN -e 'install Myco'

=back

If you run into problems then read below for the details.

=head1 PACKAGES

The myco framework requires a lot of other components to be installed; here's a
list of them:

=over 4

=item *

Perl 5.6.1 (5.8.2 or later recommended)

=item *

Perl Modules:

=begin installation

START MODULE LIST

=end installation

=over 4

=item Bit::Vector

=item Class::Accessor::Assert

=item Class::Data::Inheritable

=item Class::Inner

=item Class::Tangram 1.57

=item Config::General

=item DBD::Pg

=item DBI

=item Data::Lazy 0.6

=item Date::Calc

=item Date::Manip

=item Devel::StackTrace

=item Devel::Symdump

=item Digest::SHA1

=item Error

=item Exception::Class

=item Locale::SubCountry

=item Pod::Constants

=item Set::Object 1.04

=item Tangram 2.10

=item Test::Unit

=item WeakRef

=back

=begin installation

END MODULE LIST

=end installation

=item * PostgreSQL 7.1.3

=back

=head1 INSTALLATION

Follow these instructions to prepare your system for myco.

=head2 Perl

The standard Perl installation should apply with no problems.  If your
system comes with a package manager (ex. Redhat Linux RPM, FreeBSD
ports, etc.) then you can use that to install Perl.

Here is how to install Perl from source:

=over 4

=item *

Download the Perl source tarball from
L<http://www.perl.com|http://www.perl.com>.

=item *

Gunzip and untar the sources.

=item *

Change to the source directory and execute these commands:

  sh Configure
  make
  make test
  make install

=back

=head2 PostgreSQL

PostgreSQL is an integral part of myco: it's where all of your objects are
stored! Its installation is pretty straight-forward and typical, but it
requires a number of extra steps that one might not expect.

If you're using Redhat Linux you may already have Postgres installed. If so,
all you need to do to get it ready for use with myco is edit your
postgresql.conf file (run C<locate postgresql.conf> or C<find / -name postgresql.conf -print> to find it) and turn on
the tcpip_socket option:

  tcpip_socket = true

Otherwise, here are the installation details:

=over 4

=item *

Download the PostgreSQL source tarball from www.postgresql.org.

=item *

Gunzip and untar the sources.

=item *

Change into the source directory and read the INSTALL file to see if you need
to use any Configure commands.

=item *

Install PostgreSQL:

  ./configure
  make
  make install

=item *

If the PostgreSQL installation did not create a user named "pgsql" for you,
create it now. This is the user that will start the PostgreSQL server and own
the log and data files. Certain platforms (i.e. various Linux distributions) may create another user to own and run the server process. On FreeBSD (our favourite platform), "pgsql" is the user. The following instructions were written with this in mind.

=item *

Now make a directory in which you want to keep your PostgreSQL databases,
including the myco database. Make the "pgsql" user the owner of that
directory.

  mkdir /var/db/pgsql
  mkdir /var/db/pgsql/data
  chown pgsql /var/db/pgsql/data

and set the right permissions:

  chmod -R 0700 /var/db/pgsql/data

=item *

Initialize the PostgreSQL database. Be sure to pass the directory you just
created to the C<-D> command.

  su - pgsql -c "initdb -D /var/db/pgsql/data"

=item *

Start the PostgreSQL "postmaster". On FreeBSD this looks like so:

  /usr/local/etc/rc.d/pgsql.sh start

If you start postgres this way, you'll need to set the C<PGDATA>
environment variable first:

  su - pgsql -c "export PGDATA=/var/db/pgsql/data"

=item *

Now create a postgres user for yourself.

  su - pgsql -c "createuser someuser"

Be sure to enter the postrges username, password and database name into C<myco.conf>. The Makefile.PL script included with myco will do this for you.
    
=back


And now PostgreSQL is ready to go!

Note that only a little work is required to make myco compatible with MySQL
and other Tangram-supported RDBMSs - notably changing PostreSQL-specific SQL
directives passed to Tangram in various Entity attribute specifications. Formal
myco releases may depend on the transaction support embedded in postgres and
will not provide this support by default.

=head2 Myco.pm and required Perl Modules

There are quite a few 3rd-party Perl modules required by the myco framework
(see L<"PACKAGES"> above for a list). The easiest way to install them all,
together with all myco framework modules (Myco.pm et al), is to let CPAN.pm
take care of the process:

  perl -MCPAN -e 'install Myco'

If you have never before used the CPAN module then you will be prompted to
go through configuration process. If your computer sits behind a firewall,
setting the environment variable FTP_PASSIVE beforehand can be helpful:

 export FTP_PASSIVE=yes   # sh, bash
 setenv FTP_PASSIVE yes   # csh

See L<CPAN> for more information.

Alternatively, the process may be performed "by hand."  Manual installation of
each of the required modules follows the usual perl module installation process:

=over 4

=item *

Download the package sources.

=item *

Gunzip and untar the sources.

=item *

Change to the source directory and execute these commands:

  perl Makefile.PL
  make
  make test
  make install

=back

=head2 Deploying the Database

Now you should myco-deploy the database, assuming you were successful in installing
PostgreSQL. The CPAN installation method will have already done this for you, if you answered "yes" to the "Do you plan to run the test suite?" question.

=over

=item *

Set the MYCO_ROOT environment variable to point to the directory (usually
'myco' or 'myco/framework') that contains the 'classes', 'test', 'bin', and
'conf' directories. Alternatively you can set it temporarily on the command
line.

=item *

Change to the 'bin' directory, in the source directory, and run the 'myco-deploy'
script:

  cd bin
  perl myco-deploy

or, in csh:

  env MYCO_ROOT=~/myco perl myco-deploy

=back

Your database should now be populated. Try running 'psql' or your favourite
PostgreSQL client to inspect that its OK.

If you run into problems, send a note with as much information as possible to
myco-users@lists.sourceforge.net

=head1 AUTHOR

Charles Owens <czbsd@cpan.org> and Ben Sommer <ben@mycohq.com>; based on
L<Bric::Admin|Bric::Admin> by David Wheeler

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Myco|Myco>, L<Myco::Entity|Myco::Entity>

=cut
