=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Geo::GML::GeoPoint - convert Geo::Point objects into GML

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $geopoint = Geo::Surface->new(...);
 my $gml  = Geo::GML->new('WRITER', version => '3.2.1');
 my $data;
 $data->{..somewhere..} = $gml->GPtoGML($geopoint);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Convert Geo::Point objects into GML data structures.  The implementation
is partial: please help with providing me with examples.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Helpers

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<GPtoGML>(OBJECT, OPTIONS)

 -Option--Default
  srs     <from OBJECT>

=over 2

=item srs => SRS-name

Overrule the projection name as found in the Geo::Point object, which
is just a simple label.  Be sure that your OBJECT is in the correct
projection, for instance via

   $gml->GPtoGML($gp->in('wgs84'), srs => 'EPGS:4326');

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Geo-GML distribution version 0.16,
built on January 05, 2014. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/geo/>
All modules in this suite:
L</Geo::GML>,
L</Geo::ISO19139>,
L</Geo::EOP>,
L</Geo::Point>,
L</Geo::Proj4>,
L</Geo::WKT>, and
L</Math::Polygon>.

Please post questions or ideas to
F<https://list.hut.fi/mailman/listinfo/geo-perl|the Geo-Perl mailinglist>

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

=head2 License of the CODE

Copyrights of the perl code and the related documentation by
2008-2014 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

=head2 License of the SCHEMAS

The included schemas are copyrighted by the Open Geospatial Consortium, Inc.
They are unmodified copied from the files at F<http://schemas.opengis.net>.
Read OGCs disclaimer and copyright statements on documentation and software
at F<http://www.opengeospatial.org/ogc/legal>.  The license text is also
included in this CPAN distribution.

