=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Geo::GML::Util - GML useful constants

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Geo::GML::Util
   is a Exporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Geo::GML;
  use Geo::GML::Util ':gml311';

=head1 DESCRIPTION

XML uses long URLs to represent name-spaces, which must be used without
typos.  Therefore, it is better to use constants instead: the main
purpose for this module.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 Constants

=head3 Export Tag :protocols

This tag will give you access to the the name-space constants for
all recognisable GML versions, like NS_GML_32.

=head3 Export Tags

The following tags define all what you need per version.

  :gml200    2.0.0
  :gml211    2.1.1
  :gml212    2.1.2
  :gml2120   2.1.2.0
  :gml2121   2.1.2.1
  :gml300    3.0.0
  :gml301    3.0.1
  :gml310    3.1.0
  :gml311    3.1.1
  :gml321    3.2.1

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Geo-GML distribution version 0.16,
built on January 05, 2014. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/geo/>
All modules in this suite:
L</Geo::GML>,
L</Geo::ISO19139>,
L</Geo::EOP>,
L</Geo::Point>,
L</Geo::Proj4>,
L</Geo::WKT>, and
L</Math::Polygon>.

Please post questions or ideas to
F<https://list.hut.fi/mailman/listinfo/geo-perl|the Geo-Perl mailinglist>

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

=head2 License of the CODE

Copyrights of the perl code and the related documentation by
2008-2014 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

=head2 License of the SCHEMAS

The included schemas are copyrighted by the Open Geospatial Consortium, Inc.
They are unmodified copied from the files at F<http://schemas.opengis.net>.
Read OGCs disclaimer and copyright statements on documentation and software
at F<http://www.opengeospatial.org/ogc/legal>.  The license text is also
included in this CPAN distribution.

