
=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Test::YAFT - Yet another testing framework

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	use Test::YAFT;

	it q (should pass this test)
		=> got    => scalar do { ... }
		=> expect => $expected_value
		;

=head1 DISCLAIMER

Please accept the fact that I'm not English native speaker so this documentation
may contain improper grammar or wording making it harder to understand.

If you encounter such place, please visit project's issue tracking.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Test::YAFT> combines features of multiple test libraries, providing
a BDD-inspired, AAA-based, Context oriented testing approach.

=head2 Test Message First

The test message is always the first argument to every assumption function.
This is a core design principle that ensures tests are self-documenting
and readable.

	it q (should increment counter)
		=> got    => $counter
		=> expect => 42
		;

All other arguments use a named parameter approach, making tests
explicit and easy to understand.

=head2 AAA Pattern

L<Test::YAFT> provides the Arrange-Act-Assert pattern:

=over

=item B<Arrange> - Set up test context using C<arrange { }>

=item B<Act> - Execute code under test using C<got { }> or C<act { }>

=item B<Assert> - Verify results using C<expect> or C<throws>

=back

=head2 BDD Inspired

The naming conventions (C<it>, C<assume>, C<there>) are inspired by
Behaviour-Driven Development, allowing tests to read as specifications:

	it q (should return user's full name)
		=> got	  => $user->full_name
		=> expect => q (John Doe)
		;

	assume q (the user's full name is correctly constructed)
		=> got	  => $user->full_name
		=> expect => q (John Doe)
		;

=head2 Test::Deep Integration

L<Test::YAFT> uses L<Test::Deep> under the hood, enabling powerful nested
structure matching and custom comparators.

Additionally, L<Test::Differences> is used to report differences when tests fail.


=head2 Common Assumption Arguments

=over

=item C<got> - The value under test

	=> got => $value_under_test
	=> got { return $value_under_test }

=item C<expect> - The expected value (L<Test::Deep::Cmp> or plain value)

	=> expect => expect_foo (...)

=item C<throws> - Expected exception (when testing for errors)

	=> throws => expect_foo (...)

=item C<with_*> - Context setup

	=> with_name => $name
	=> arrange { name => $name }

=item C<diag> - Custom diagnostic message

	=> diag => q (Custom diagnostic message)
	=> diag => sub { q (Computed custom diagnostic message) }

=back

=head2 Computed C<got> Value

The C<got { }> block computes the value under test within an C<eval>,
automatically checking for unexpected exceptions:

	it q (should calculate total)
		=> got    { $cart->calculate_total }
		=> expect => 99.99
		;

When C<throws> is specified, the test expects the code to die:

	it q (should reject negative quantity)
		=> got    { $cart->add_item (quantity => -1) }
		=> throws => expect_obj_isa (My::X::Positive_Quantity::)
		;

To specify such block across multiple assumptions, use the L<act { }|/act { }> block.

=head2 Context

L<Test::YAFT> uses a hierarchical context system to manage test state.

Each context enforces the following constraints:

=over

=item Only one L<act {}|/act {}> block can be defined

=item Each property name can only be arranged once

=back

There is one root context shared by all test files within the same process.
Each L<subtest|/subtest> and each L<assumption|/ASSUMPTIONS> creates a new sub-context.

Sub-contexts inherit values from their parent context and allow you to override them (once).
Changes in a sub-context do not affect the parent or sibling contexts.
Once a value has been read from a parent, it becomes immutable and can no longer be overridden.

See also:
L<test_frame|/test_frame>

=head1 GETTING STARTED

For a tutorial-like introduction, see L<Test::YAFT::Introduction>.

If you are migrating from another testing library, these guides may help:

=over

=item L<Test::YAFT for Test::Deep users|Test::YAFT::Test::Deep>

=item L<Test::YAFT for Test::Exceptions users|Test::YAFT::Test::Exception>

=item L<Test::YAFT for Test::More users|Test::YAFT::Test::More>

=item L<Test::YAFT for Test::Spec users|Test::YAFT::Test::Spec>

=item L<Test::YAFT for Test::Warnings users|Test::YAFT::Test::Warnings>

=back

=head1 EXPORTING

L<Test::YAFT> exports symbols using L<Exporter::Tiny>.

=head2 Export Tags

=over

=item C<:all>

All exported functions.

=item C<:assumptions>

Assumption functions (exported by default).

=item C<:default>

All functions exported by default.

=item C<:expectations>

Expectation functions (exported by default).

=item C<:foundations>

Foundation functions (B<not> exported by default).

=item C<:utils>

Utility functions (exported by default).

=back

=head2 Selective Import

    # Import specific functions
    use Test::YAFT qw (it expect_true);

    # Import only foundation functions
    use Test::YAFT qw (:foundations);

    # Exclude specific functions
    use Test::YAFT qw (!fail);

See L<Exporter::Tiny> for more import options.

=head1 OVERLOADED OPERATORS

L<Test::YAFT> overloads operators for L<Test::Deep> expectations,
enabling tabular-style expectation definitions for improved readability.

=over

=item C<!>, C<~>, Unary C<->

	assume q (...)
		=> expect => ! expectation
		;

	assume q (...)
		=> expect => ~ expectation
		;

	assume q (...)
		=> expect => - expectation
		;

Creates a complementary expectation (negation).

=item Binary C<+>

	assume q (user should have valid properties)
		=> expect =>
			+ expectation # must pass
			+ expectation # must pass as well
			+ expectation # must pass as well
		;

Combines multiple expectations where all must pass. Same behaviour as
L<Test::Deep>'s C<&> operator, but enables better vertical alignment for
improved readability.

=item Binary C<->

	assume q (...)
		=> expect =>
			+ expectation # must pass
			+ expectation # must pass as well
			- expectation # must not pass
		;

Combines expectations where C<-> negates the expectation.
Equivalent to C<+ !>.

=back

=head1 ASSUMPTIONS

	use Test::YAFT qw (:assumptions);

Assumption functions perform actual value comparison and report test results.
They are exported by default.

Every assumption accepts the test message as the first positional parameter,
with remaining parameters using the named approach.

When an assumption performs multiple internal expectations, it reports
as a single test using the provided message, failing early.

=head2 assume

	assume q (meaningful sentence)
		=> got    => ...
		=> expect => ...
		;

The primary test primitive. It creates its own sub-context so already arranged
values can be redefined per assumption when needed.

Accepted parameters:

=over

=item arrange

	assume q (...)
		=> arrange { foo => q (bar) }
		=> arrange { bar => q (baz) }
		...
		;

L<<C<arrange { }>|/arrange { }>> blocks are evaluated in the context of the
assumption's sub-context before resolving the value under test.

Multiple L<<C<arrange { }>|/arrange { }>> blocks are evaluated in order.

=item diag

Custom diagnostic message, printed on failure. When specified, no other
diagnostic message is printed.

Can be a string, arrayref of strings, or coderef. Coderef receives
the L<Test::Deep> stack and value under test as parameters.

=item expect

Expected value. When specified along with computed C<got> value, an additional
check verifies the code did not die before comparison.

=item got

Value under test. When L<<C<got { }>|/got { }>> is used, the block is evaluated
and its error status is checked before comparison.

=item throws

Expected exception. When specified along with computed C<got> value, an additional
check verifies the code did die before comparison.

When both C<expect> and C<throws> are specified, C<throws> takes precedence.

See also L<Test::YAFT::Test::Exception>.

=back

=head2 fail

	return fail q (what failed);

	return fail q (what failed)
		=> diag => q (diagnostic message)
		;

	return fail q (what failed)
		=> diag => sub { q (diagnostic message) }
		;

Always fails the test. Accepts an optional C<diag> parameter for
diagnostic messages.

When C<diag> is a coderef, it is executed and its result is passed
to C<diag>.

=head2 had_no_warnings

    had_no_warnings;
    had_no_warnings q (title);

Verifies that no warnings were emitted.

See also L<Test::Warnings::had_no_warnings|Test::Warnings/had_no_warnings>.

=head2 it

	it q (should be ...)
		=> got    => ...
		=> expect => ...
		;

Alias for L</assume>. Use when forming sentences that read naturally with "it".

=head2 nok

	nok q (shouldn't be ...)
		=> got    => ...
		;

Shortcut expecting a boolean false value.

=head2 ok

	ok q (should be ...)
		=> got    => ...
		;

Shortcut expecting a boolean true value.

=head2 pass

	pass q (what passed);

Always passes the test.

=head2 there

	there q (should be ...)
		=> got    => ...
		=> expect => ...
		;

Alias for L<it|/it>. Provides a convenient word for forming meaningful
English sentences.

=head1 EXPECTATIONS

	use Test::YAFT qw (:expectations);

Expectation functions return L<Test::Deep::Cmp> objects describing
expected values. They are exported by default.

=head2 expect_all

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/all>.

=head2 expect_any

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/any>.

=head2 expect_array

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/array>.

=head2 expect_array_each

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/array_each>.

=head2 expect_array_elements_only

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/arrayelementsonly>.

=head2 expect_array_length

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/arraylength>.

=head2 expect_array_length_only

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/arraylengthonly>.

=head2 expect_bag

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/bag>.

=head2 expect_blessed

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/blessed>.

=head2 expect_bool

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/bool>.

=head2 expect_code

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/code>.

=head2 expect_compare

	expect_compare (q (<=), $max)

Similar to L<Test::More/cmp_ok> but provided as an expectation, allowing
combination with other L<Test::YAFT> expectations.

=head2 expect_complement_to

	expect_complement_to (42)

Negative expectation. Usually it is easier to use the overloaded
complement operators C<!> or C<~>.

=head2 expect_false

Boolean expectation for false values.

=head2 expect_hash

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/hash>.

=head2 expect_hash_each

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/hash_each>.

=head2 expect_hash_keys

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/hashkeys>.

=head2 expect_hash_keys_only

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/hashkeysonly>.

=head2 expect_isa

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/Isa>. Instance or inheritance expectation.

=head2 expect_listmethods

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/listmethods>.

=head2 expect_methods

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/methods>.

=head2 expect_no_class

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/noclass>.

=head2 expect_none

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/none>.

=head2 expect_none_of

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/noneof>.

=head2 expect_num

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/num>.

=head2 expect_obj_isa

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/obj_isa>.

=head2 expect_re

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/re>.

=head2 expect_ref_type

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/reftype>.

=head2 expect_regexp_matches

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/regexpmatches>.

=head2 expect_regexp_only

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/regexponly>.

=head2 expect_regexpref

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/regexpref>.

=head2 expect_regexpref_only

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/regexprefonly>.

=head2 expect_scalarref

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/scalarref>.

=head2 expect_scalarref_only

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/scalarrefonly>.

=head2 expect_set

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/set>.

=head2 expect_shallow

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/shallow>.

=head2 expect_str

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/str>.

=head2 expect_subbag

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/subbagof>.

=head2 expect_subbag_of

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/subbagof>.

=head2 expect_subhash

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/subhashof>.

=head2 expect_subhash_of

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/subhashof>.

=head2 expect_subset

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/subsetof>.

=head2 expect_subset_of

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/subsetof>.

=head2 expect_superbag

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/superbagof>.

=head2 expect_superbag_of

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/superbagof>.

=head2 expect_superhash

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/superhashof>.

=head2 expect_superhash_of

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/superhashof>.

=head2 expect_superset

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/supersetof>.

=head2 expect_superset_of

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/supersetof>.

=head2 expect_true

Boolean expectation for true values.

=head2 expect_use_class

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/useclass>.

=head2 expect_value

    => expect => expect_value (42)

Wraps any value as an expectation.

=head2 ignore

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/ignore>.

=head1 UTILITIES

	use Test::YAFT qw (:utils);

Utility functions help organise tests. They are exported by default.

=head2 act { }

	act { GET qq (/countries/$_[0]) }
		q (continent)
		;

	it q (should list countries)
		=> with_continent => q (europe)
		=> expect         => ...
		;

Defines a shared computation for C<got> across multiple assumptions.
The block receives dependency values as arguments.

Dependencies are specified after the block and are provided via
L<arrange { }|/arrange { }> block or via C<with_NAME> parameters
in assumptions.

=head2 arrange { }

	arrange { foo => q (bar) };

	it q (should ...)
		=> arrange { foo => q (bar2) }
		=> got     { $foo->method (deduce q (foo)) }
		=> expect  => ...
		;

Sets up test context by providing values to L<Context::Singleton>.

When called in void context, values are proclaimed immediately.
When used as a parameter, values are proclaimed in the test-local frame.

Returns a guard object evaluated in the frame valid at the time
of evaluation.

=head2 BAIL_OUT

Reexported L<Test::More/BAIL_OUT>

=head2 diag

Re-exported from L<Test::More/diag>.

=head2 done_testing

Re-exported from L<Test::More/done_testing>.

=head2 explain

Re-exported from L<Test::More/explain>.

=head2 got { }

    it q (should die)
        => got { $foo->do_something }
        => throws => expect_obj_isa (...)
        ;

Specifies code to compute the test value. The block is evaluated
in an C<eval>, and C<it> checks the error status before comparison.

Use with C<throws> to test that code should die.

=head2 note

Re-exported from L<Test::More/note>.

=head2 plan

Re-exported from L<Test::More/plan>.

=head2 skip

Re-exported from L<Test::More/skip>.

=head2 subtest

    subtest q (title) => sub {
        ...;
    };

Similar to L<Test::More/subtest> but also creates a new
L<Context::Singleton> frame for each subtest.

=head2 todo_skip

Re-exported from L<Test::More/todo_skip>.

=head1 FOUNDATIONS

	use Test::YAFT qw (:foundations);

Foundation functions help build custom assumptions, expectations,
and tools. They are B<not> exported by default.

=head2 cmp_details

	use Test::YAFT qw (cmp_details);
	my ($ok, $stack) = cmp_details ($got, $expected);

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/cmp_details>.

=head2 deep_diag

	use Test::YAFT qw (deep_diag);
	deep_diag ($stack);

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/deep_diag>.

=head2 eq_deeply

	use Test::YAFT qw (eq_deeply);
	if (eq_deeply ($got, $expected)) {
		...
	}

Re-exported from L<Test::Deep/eq_deeply>.

=head2 test_deep_cmp

Creates an anonymous L<Test::YAFT> comparator class. Returns the
created class name.

	sub expect_foo {
		state $class = test_deep_cmp (
			isa       => ...,
			descend   => ...,
			renderGot => ...,
		);

		$class->new (@_);
	}

Accepted parameters:

=over

=item isa => E<lt>PACKAGEE<gt>

Parent class, default: L<Test::YAFT::Cmp>.

=item E<lt>METHODE<gt> => E<lt>CODEREF<gt>

Every other parameter is treated as a method to install.

=back

=head2 test_frame (&)

	use Test::YAFT qw (test_frame);
	sub my_assumption {
		test_frame {
			...
		};
	}

Utility for building custom assumptions. Handles:

=over

=item Adjusting L<Test::Builder/level>

=item Creating L<Context::Singleton/frame>

=back

=head1 CONTRIBUTING

Contributions are welcome!

=over

=item Repository: L<https://github.com/happy-barney/perl-Test-YAFT>

=item Report issues: L<https://github.com/happy-barney/perl-Test-YAFT/issues>

=item Questions and ideas: L<https://github.com/happy-barney/perl-Test-YAFT/discussions>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Branislav Zahradník <barney@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

L<Test::YAFT> distribution is distributed under the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut

