# PODNAME: Yancy::Guides
# ABSTRACT: Guide to Yancy Documentation

__END__

=pod

=head1 NAME

Yancy::Guides - Guide to Yancy Documentation

=head1 VERSION

version 1.086

=head1 BASICS

=over

=item Learning Perl and Mojolicious

If you are new to Perl or Mojolicious, start from L<the Mojolicious
documentation|https://docs.mojolicious.org>.

=item Learning JSON Schema

Yancy uses L<JSON Schema|https://json-schema.org> to define and annotate
the database schema. You can read more L<from the JSON Schema tutorial|https://json-schema.org/learn/getting-started-step-by-step.html>,
but Yancy will try to read your database schema to start with.

=head1 TUTORIAL

=over

=item L<Yancy::Guides::Tutorial>

This guide builds a simple application using L<Yancy>.

=back

=head1 GUIDES

=over

=item L<Yancy::Guides::Schema>

Connecting to and documenting your database.

=item L<Yancy::Guides::Model>

Reading and writing your data.

=item L<Yancy::Guides::Editor>

Configuring and extending the Yancy editor.

=item L<Yancy::Guides::Accounts>

User authentication, authorization, and information.

=item L<Yancy::Guides::Cookbook>

Recipes for Yancy applications.

=item L<Yancy::Guides::Upgrading>

Breaking changes in Yancy releases and how to fix your application.

=back

=head1 OTHER RESOURCES

=head2 Example Applications

The L<Yancy Git repository on Github|http://github.com/preaction/Yancy>
includes some example applications you can use to help build your own
websites. L<View the example application directory|https://github.com/preaction/Yancy/tree/master/eg>.

=head1 SUPPORT

If you have any questions or suggestions, L<ask on the Yancy discussion
board|https://github.com/preaction/Yancy/discussions> or L<open a ticket
on Yancy's issue tracker|https://github.com/preaction/Yancy/issues>. You
can also join us on the official IRC channel C<#mojo-yancy> on
C<irc.libera.chat> (L<chat
now!|https://kiwiirc.com/nextclient/#irc://irc.libera.chat/mojo-yancy?nick=guest-?>)

=head1 AUTHOR

Doug Bell <preaction@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2021 by Doug Bell.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
