=pod

=head1 NAME

Devel::WxProf::Manual - How to use WxProf

=head1 PREFERENCES

C<wxprofile>'s preferences are stored in the C<.wxprofile> directory in the
current user's application data directory (home directory on UNIX) in YAML.

There are two kinds of preferences: User preferences and dynamic preferences.

=head2 User preferences

=head2 Dynamic preferences

Dynamic preferences are stored in C<dynamic_preferences> in the preferences
directory.

Dynamic preferences are read at program start, and written at program end.
They cover data such as the default directory, or window size and position
(not implemented yet).

Errors reading or writing dynamic preferences are ignored.

=head1 Troubleshooting

If wxprofile does not remember it's last open location, you should check the
following:

=over

=item * Application data directory

The application data directory exists and is read/writeable.

 perl -MFile::HomeDir -e "print File::HomeDir->my_data"

will tell you the location of that directory (or what perl thinks it is...).

=item * .wxprofile directory

C<wxprofile> stores it's preferences in the directory C<.wxprofile> in the
application data directory. The directory will be created if not present.

If it is present, check whether it is read- and writeable.

=item * dynamic_preferences

Check whether there is a file named C<dynamic_preferences> in the preferences
directory. If there is one, along with one or more C<dynamic_preferences.1234>
files, wxprofile cannot rename its temp file back to C<dynamic_preferences>.

Make sure C<dynamic_preferences> is read-/writable.

=back

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2008 Martin Kutter.

This file is part of Devel::WxProf. You may distribute/modify it under
the same terms as perl itself

=head1 AUTHOR

Martin Kutter E<lt>martin.kutter fen-net.deE<gt>

=head1 REPOSITORY INFORMATION

 $Rev: 583 $
 $LastChangedBy: kutterma $
 $Id: $
 $HeadURL: $

=cut
