#  Copyright (c) 2003-2004 RAZ Information Systems LTD.
#You may distribute under the terms of either the GNU General Public
#License or the Artistic License, as specified in the Perl README file
#
#

=head1 NAME

Tk::Text::Viewer - Simple Text Viewer

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Tk;
    use Tk::Text::Viewer;
    .....
    my $mw = MainWindow->new;
    my $t1 = $mw->Scrolled('Viewer', -wrap => 'none'......);
    $t1->LabelText("Search:");# Change label text
    or:
    my $t1 = $mw->Viewer()->pack();
    .....
    $t1->Load($filename)); 
Also:
    viewer.pl [TextFile]


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Tk::Text::Viewer B<IS A> text widget that can display text files under TK.
It enable the user to search text and navigate in a Text widget.
The reason for creating this module is that it doesn't require
downloading of modules other that Tk;
Look for widget options in L<Tk::Text>. 

A separate F<viewer.pl> program is included that can be used as a stand alone
file browser.

=head1 WIDGET METHODS

The B<Viewer >widget also inherits all the methods provided by the generic
 Tk::Widget and Tk::Text classes.

The following additional method is available for viewer widgets:

=over 4


=item I<$text_view>-E<gt>B<Load>(I<$filename>)

Load file into the text widget.

=item I<$text_view>-E<gt>B<LabelConfig>(string or hash ref)

=over  4

=item * C<$text_view>-E<gt>C<LabelConfig>(I<"Search:">)

Change label for the search entry field. You might want to change
this label if the widget is used in a non English application.


=item * C<$text_view>-E<gt>C<LabelConfig>(I<"-cursor=E<gt> 'dot'">)

Change one label widget option (for example cursor).

=item * C<$text_view>-E<gt>C<LabelConfig>(I<{text=E<gt>'Find:',-cursor=E<gt>'dot',...}>)

Replace label widget options with your own set of options.
B<Do not>  change the 'Name' option of the label widget.
See L<Tk::Label> for valid options

=back


=item I<$text_view>-E<gt>B<EntryConfig>(string or hash ref)

Change the entry widget options. Read C<LabelConfig> for information
about parameters. See L<Tk::Entry> for valid options.


=back

=head1 BINDINGS

For inherited bindings look L<Tk::Text>.
Following are class specific bindings.

=over 4

=item "Space"

Clicking Space will move text one page ahead.

=item "BackSpace"

Clicking BackSpace will move text one page up.

=item "Slash"

Clicking "/" will open text search window.

=item "n"

Clicking "n" will move to next search match.

=item "N"

Clicking "N" will move to next previous match.

=item "Control-A"

Find all occurrences of searched item.


=back


=head1 UNICODE 

If B<$ENV{LANG}> is a 'UTF-8' locale, file load will assume "utf8" characters in file.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<viewer.pl|> - A utility using C<Tk::Text::Viewer> included with this package.

L<Tk::Text|Tk::Text>, L<Tk::Widget|Tk::Widget>, L<Tk::More|Tk::More>, Tk documentation.

=head1 AUTHOR

=over 4


C<Tk::Text::Viewer> was written by Oded S. Resnik E<lt>raz@raz.co.ilE<gt> in 2003.

B<Copyright (c) 2003-2004 RAZ Information Systems All rights reserved>.
I<http://www.raz.co.il/>

You may distribute under the terms of either the GNU General Public
License or the Artistic License, as specified in the Perl README file

=back

=cut
