=head1 NAME

httunnel - Client daemon for Apache::HTTunnel


=head1 SYNOPSIS

  httunnel path [-V] [-VV] [-d]
  httunnel -v
  httunnel -h

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<httunnel> is a stand-alone daemon that can be used to easily
set up HTTP tunnels with L<Apache::HTTunnel>.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item path

Path to a configuration file or directory. If C<path> is a directory,
all .conf files found are loaded.

=item -V

Verbose output.

=item -VV

Very verbose output. May contain binary data.

=item -d

Daemon mode. L<httunnel> will detach from the console and log information
to syslog if available.

=item -v

Prints version and exits.

=item -h

Prints a short usage message and exits.

=back


=head1 CONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT

The configuration file format is similar to .ini files and to that of
C<stunnel>. It is built up of sections and directives. Here is an
example:

  global_key_1 = value1
  global_key_2 = value2

  [section 1]
  section1_key_1 = value1
  section1_key_2 = value2

  [section 2]
  section2_key_1 = value1
  section2_key_2 = value2

Keys can be declared globally and/or locally inside a section. Sections
not specifying a value locally will inherit the global value. If there is
no global value, the default value is used.

Each section corresponds to a tunnel to be established. Below is the
description of all the valid configuration directives.


=head1 CONFIGURATION FILE DIRECTIVES

=over 4

=item local_addr = <hostname or ip address>

Local address to bind to. Default is 'localhost'.

=item local_port = <port nb.>

Local port number to bind to. This directive is mandatory.

=item protocol = <proto>

Protocol for the tunnelled connection. Default is 'tcp', possible values
are 'tcp and 'udp'.

=item remote_port = <port nb.>

Remote port number. This directive is mandatory.

=item remote_host = <hostname or ip address>

Remote host. This directive if mandatory.

=item url = <url>

The URL to reach the L<Apache::HTTunnel> server. This directive
is mandatory.

=item http_protocol = <http proto>

The HTTP protocol to use. The default is 'HTTP/1.1'.

=item http_keep_alive = <0 or 1>

Whether to use persistent HTTP connections. Although not required, this
increases performance quite a bit. The default is '1'.

=item http_username = <username>

Basic authentication username for the L<Apache::HTTunnel> server.
The default is ''.

=item http_password = <password>

Basic authentication password for the L<Apache::HTTunnel> server.
The default is ''.

=item http_proxy = <url>

URL of your HTTP proxy. This is passed directly to L<LWP::UserAgent>.

=item http_proxy_username = <username>

Basic authentication username for your HTTP proxy. The default is ''.

=item http_proxy_password = <password>

Basic authentication password for your HTTP proxy. The default is ''.

=item read_length = <nb. bytes>

The numbers of bytes the L<httunnel> tries to read when a read is
attempted. The default is 131072 bytes.

=item read_timeout = <nb. seconds>

All HTTP read request are interrupted after C<read_timeout> by
L<Apache::HTTunnel>. However, L<HTTunnel::Client> will keep on
sending HTTP read requests until data is received. You can lower
this value if your proxy is interrupting the HTTP requests abruptly,
causing L<HTTunnel::Client> to not function correctly. The default
is 15 seconds.

=item verbose = <0 or 1 or 2>

Controls debug output. The default is as such: '2' if the -VV option
is used, '1' if the -V option is used, '0' otherwise.

=back


=head1 L<httunnel> SERVICE

On supported platforms (Linux only for now), a service script
(/etc/init.d/httunnel) is installed. When invoked using this
script, L<httunnel> will use /etc/httunnel.d as its configuration
directory and subsequently load all .conf files found there.


=head1 BUGS

I'm sure there are some in there :)


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<HTTunnel::Client>, L<LWP::UserAgent>


=head1 AUTHOR

Patrick LeBoutillier, E<lt>patl@cpan.orgE<gt>


=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2005 by Patrick LeBoutillier

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
