
=head1 Developing OAuthomatic

=head2 Grabbing the source

This code is maintained in Mercurial repository at 
L<bitbucket.org/Mekk/perl-oauthomatic|https://bitbucket.org/Mekk/perl-oauthomatic>:

    hg clone https://bitbucket.org/Mekk/perl-oauthomatic

or

    hg clone ssh://hg@bitbucket.org/Mekk/perl-oauthomatic

If you can't speak Mercurial,
L<Download repository|https://bitbucket.org/Mekk/perl-oauthomatic/downloads>.

Released versions can be downloaded from CPAN:

    cpanm --look OAuthomatic

but note, that they are mashed-up by L<Pod::Weaver>, so it is not recommended 
to edit those versions and patches made against them are not very welcome.

=head2 Building and testing

This module uses L<Dist::Zilla> for build and release. 

Install dependencies:

   dzil listdeps --all --missing   |  cpanm --sudo

Build distro:

    dzil build

(or C<dzil build --verbose> to get better info what is built).

Review documentation shape:

    firefox README.html
    firefox OAuthomatic-X.Y/docs/

Test:

    prove -l           # without build
    dzil test          # with build
    dzil test --all    # with build, also release and author tests

Separate perl::critic:

    perlcritic --profile perlcritic.rc lib
    # Elaborate
    perlcritic --profile perlcritic.rc --verbose 10 lib

=head2 Local install

To install locally:

    dzil install

=head2 Contributing

Preferable form: BitBucket pull requst (fork repository on BitBucket,
implement changes, issue pull request). 

I will also accept patches - Mercurial bundle, git-diff or plain diff
(in this order of preference). In case of diffs, please specify the
version diff is made against. Patches may be attached to either
BitBucket (preferably), or CPAN issue tracker.

For bigger changes, please open issue and describe your idea before
working on the code.

=head2 Making CPAN release (author only)

=over 4

=item * 

edit version number in C<dist.ini> (tag will be placed automatically)

=item *

edit C<Changes> file

=item *

C<dzil build> and C<hg commit> to commit edits above and regenerated
C<README.mkdn> and C<README-development.txt>.

=item *

build, test, and publish to CPAN:

    dzil release

=item *

push source changes:

    hg push bitbucket

=back 

