
=head1 NAME

Web::DataService::Configuration - how to configure a data service

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This page describes how to configure a data service with L<Web::DataService>,
covering the configuration attributes that apply to the data service as a
whole.  A full data service definition includes several different kinds of
data service elements, which are documented on the following pages:

=over

=item L<Web::DataService::Configuration::Node>

How to define data service nodes, and the attributes available for defining
them. 

=item L<Web::DataService::Configuration::Format>

How to define output formats, and the attributes available for defining
them.

=item L<Web::DataService::Configuration::Vocabulary>

How to define vocabularies, and the attributes available for defining them.

=item L<Web::DataService::Configuration::Set>

How to define value sets, and the attributes available for defining them.

=item L<Web::DataService::Configuration::Output>

How to define output blocks, and the attributes available for defining them.

=item L<Web::DataService::Configuration::Ruleset>

How to define parameter rulesets, and the attributes available for defining
them.

=back

=head1 SYNTAX

The various configuration methods provided by L<Web::DataService> all use a
consistent syntax.  With the possible exception of an initial name argument,
all of the rest of the arguments must be either hashrefs or strings.  The
hashrefs each configure some object, and the strings each document the object
whose definition they follow.  We refer to this mix of attribute hashrefs and
documentation strings as a I<definition list>.

    $ds->define_format(
	{ name => 'json', content_type => 'application/json',
	  doc_node => 'formats/json', title => 'JSON',
	  default_vocab => 'com' },
	    "The JSON format is intended primarily to support client applications,",
	    "including the PBDB Navigator.  Response fields are named using compact",
	    "3-character field names.",
	{ name => 'xml', disabled => 1, content_type => 'text/xml', title => 'XML',
	  doc_node => 'formats/xml',
	  default_vocab => 'dwc' },
	    "The XML format is intended primarily to support data interchange with",
	    "other databases, using the Darwin Core element set.");

For example, the above call defines two response formats: one named 'json' and
the other named 'xml'.  Each of these formats is defined by the set of
attributes contained in a hashref.  The documentation strings are
automatically collected (joined by newlines) as the attribute C<doc_string> of
the object whose definition they immediately follow.

Note that this does not apply to C<< Web::DataService->new >>, which must be
called with a single hash argument only.

=head2 Attribute value syntax

In general, whenever an attribute can take a list of values, you specify those
values as a string with the items separated by commas and arbitrary
whitespace.  For example, the following are identical:

   output => 'basic , extra'
   output => 'basic,extra'

=head1 CONFIGURATION PROCESS

In order to fully define a data service using this framework, your code must
carry out the following steps (see L<Web::DataService::Tutorial> for
more about this):

=over

=item 1.

Load one or more modules ("operation modules") that can serve as L<Moo>
L<roles|Moo::Role>.  The subroutines that implement your data service
operations must be placed in these modules.

=item 2.

Generate a new L<instance of Web::DataService|/Data service instantiation>.
The rest of the steps will be carried out using method calls on this instance.

=item 3.

Define one or more L<output
vocabularies|Web::DataService::Configuration::Vocabulary> using
C<define_vocab>.  This step is optional, and a "null" vocabulary consisting of
the field names and values obtained from the backend will be automatically
used if you do not specify any.

=item 4.

Define one or more L<output formats|Web::DataService::Configuration::Format> using
C<define_format>.  This must follow any vocabulary definitions, and must
precede the node definitions.

=item 5.

Define some L<data service nodes|Web::DataService::Configuration::Node> using C<define_node>.

=item 6.

Define one or more L<output blocks|Web::DataService::Configuration::Output> using
C<define_block>.  These may occur in any order with respect to the node
definitions.

=item 7.

Define L<value sets|Web::DataService::Configuration::Set> using C<define_set>
(or C<define_output_map>).  This step is optional, but you will need to do
this if you wish to provide optional output blocks or parameters with
enumerated values.  These definitions must occur before any output blocks or
rulesets that depend on them.

=item 8.

Define one or more L<parameter validation
rulesets|Web::DataService::Configuration::Ruleset> using C<define_ruleset>.
These may occur in any order with respect to the other definitions.

=back

If some or all of your operation modules define a subroutine called
C<initialize>, this will be called once for each module as soon as the module
name is encountered as the value of a C<role> attribute in a node definition.
You can also trigger this explicitly by calling C<initialize_role>.  The
routine will be called as a class method, so the module name will be the first
argument.  The data service instance will be the second, so you can use that
to make further definitions.

You may find it convenient to put some or all of the definitions from steps
5-8 (C<define_node>, C<define_block>, C<define_set>, C<define_output_map>,
C<define_ruleset>) in these initialization routines.  That will serve to
locate these definitions together with the operations to which they apply.

You may instead find it convenient to put all of the node definitions
together, either in the main application file or in some subsidiary module, so
that the hierarchical relationships will be apparent.  Exactly how you
structure your applicaton is up to you.

=head1 CONFIGURATION DETAILS

The attributes that you can use in defining these different types of elements
are listed in the following sections.

=head2 Data service instantiation

A new data service is instantiated by calling the C<new> method of
L<Web::DataService|Web::DataService/"new">, as follows:

    my $ds = Web::DataService->new({ name => 'data1.0', ... });

The "..." in the above example represents some set of attributes chosen from
the list below.  With a few exceptions noted below, any attributes that you do
not specify in the call to C<new> will be looked up in the configuration file
provided by the foundation framework (F<config.yml> in the case of L<Dancer>).
Any not specified there will be given default values, as indicated in the
documentation for the individual attributes.  For most attributes, it is up to
you whether to specify them in the instantiation call or in the configuration
file.

When a new data service is instantiated, attributes that are not explicitly
specified in the instantiation call are looked up in the configuration file
under the value provided for the required attribute C<name>.  If not found,
they are then looked up as direct attributes.  For example, if the
configuration file has the contents listed below, the above call will produce
a data service with a C<default_limit> of C<1000> and a C<default_header> of
C<1>.  This allows you to configure several different data services that share
some attribute values but not others.

    default_limit: 500
    default_header: 1
    
    data1.0:
	default_limit: 1000
    
    data2.0:
        default_limit: 1200

=head2 Data service attributes

In the list below, entries indicated by C<[req]> are required attributes.
Those indicated by C<[inst]> must be specified in the call to C<new> rather
than in the configuration file.  Those indicated by C<[mod]> have default
values according to which modules have been loaded at the time the data
service is instantiated.

All of the data service attributes have identically-named accessor methods.
These are all read-only; the attributes may only be set at the time of
instantiation.

=head3 name [req] [inst]

Specifies a unique identifier for this data service.  You must specify this in
the instantiation call, because it is used to find attribute values in the
configuration file.

=head3 features [req] [inst]

Specifies the set of built-in features to be enabled for this data service.
The value of this attribute must be a comma-separated list of feature names
from the list given below.  You can turn a feature off by prefixing its name
with C<no_>, and you can use 'standard' to enable all of the available
features.  So the following will enable all of the features except
"doc_paths":

    features => 'standard, no_doc_paths'

while the following will enable just 'format_suffix' and 'documentation':

    features => 'format_suffix, documentation'

The individual features are as follows:

=head4 format_suffix

This feature causes the response format of any request to be set from the suffix
on the URL path.  If enabled, a request with the URL path "/my/operation.json"
will select the operation corresponding to the data service node
"my/operation" and will render the output using the "json" format.

=head4 documentation

This feature will auto-generate documentation pages for the various data
service operations.  If enabled, the URL path "/" will always generate a main
documentation page, and a URL without any suffix will generate a documentation
page corresponding to the selected data service node.  You are also able to
create additional documentation nodes and templates at will.  In order to make
use of this feature, you must also ensure that a L<templating
plugin|/"templating_plugin"> is loaded.

=head4 doc_paths

This feature will enable additional URL paths for accessing documentation.  If
enabled, a request with the URL path "/my/operation_doc" or (if
C<format_suffix> is also enabled) "/my/operation_doc.html" will produce the
documentation page for the data service node "my/operation".  So will
"/my/operation/index.html".  The URL path "/my/operation" (or
"/my/operation.json" if C<format_suffix> is also enabled)
will execute the operation and return the result.

You can change the documentation suffixes by setting the attributes
L<doc_suffix|/"doc_suffix"> and L<doc_index|/"doc_index">.

=head4 send_files

This feature will enable you to define data service nodes that respond with
the contents of files from disk.  Its primary purpose is to provide access to
the stylesheet used by the documentation pages.  You can use it to provide
access to other files as well.  If you disable this feature but enable the
'documentation' feature, you will need to arrange for the stylesheet to be
provided separately.

=head4 strict_params

If this feature is enabled, then any parameter names that are not recognized
by the ruleset corresponding to the selected data service node will cause a
request to be rejected with a result code of 400 (bad request).  If disabled,
then bad parameter names will generate warnings instead.

=head4 stream_output

If this feature is enabled, then any response body larger than the value of
L<stream_threshold|/"stream_threshold"> will be streamed to the client instead
of being sent in a single chunk.  This feature should be enabled for any
service which can produce large responses, because otherwise the process of
marshalling such responses will take up large amounts of server memory and CPU
time, and may cause excessive paging.

=head3 special_params [req] [inst]

The Web::DataService module can process certain request parameters in special
ways.  Each of these special parameters has an internal name for use in the
data service application code, and an external name which you can set to any
string you choose.  It is this external parameter name which is used by
clients when making requests to the data service.

The value of C<special_params> must be a list of special parameter internal
names.  You can turn off any of these by prefixing the name with C<no_>, and
you can change the external name (i.e. the name actually used in requests) by
adding C<=name>.  The name C<standard> enables the following set of parameters:

    show, limit, offset, header, datainfo, count, vocab, linebreak, save

So the following attribute value would enable the parameters listed above
except for 'datainfo', and would set the external name of the 'header'
parameter to 'head'.

    special_params => 'standard, no_datainfo, header=head'

Once a set of special parameters is chosen, clients of the data service may
include any of them (or none) in any request.  The special parameters are as
follows:

=head4 selector

If enabled, this special parameter is used to select which version of the data
service should respond to the request.  Its external name defaults to C<v>
unless overridden.  If you enable this parameter, then you should give each
data service a different value for the attribute L<key|/"key">.

If you are running multiple versions of your data service from a single
application, or I<if you think you may want to create a second version at some
point>, then you should either enable this parameter from the very beginning
or use a different value of L<path_prefix|/"path_prefix"> for each of your
data services.  One or the other mechanism will ensure that the proper version
of your service is selected to respond to each request.  See the
L<VERSIONING|Web::DataService::Tutorial/VERSIONING> section of
L<Web::DataService::Tutorial> for a more comprehensive discussion.

=head4 format

If enabled, this special parameter is used to select the response format for
the request.  It is not included in the standard set, but you can turn it on
if you prefer your clients to select the response format by means of a
parameter rather than through a suffix on the URL path.  If you do this, then
you must also disable the feature L</"format_suffix">.

=head4 show

If enabled, this special parameter is used to select optional output blocks in
addition to the default output for a particular request.  In this way, clients
can tailor the output of each request to provide just the information they
need and leave out information they do not need.  See the documentation for
<optional_output|/optional_output>.

=head4 limit

If enabled, this special parameter is used to limit the number of result
records returned by a request.  The data service attribute L</default_limit>
can be used to provide a default limit for any request that does not specify
this attribute.  The value of this parameter can be any positive integer, 0,
or the string C<all>.  By using the latter value, a client can ensure that the
entire result set is provided.

This parameter, in combination with C<default_limit>, can be useful for data
services that are able to generate large result sets.  This combination
prevents clients from accidentally sending in request URLs that generate
enormous responses, while allowing the ability to acquire the full results
when necessary.  A client can either use this parameter with a value of C<all>
to obtain the entire result set deliberately with one query, or use it in
conjunction with L</offset> to obtain a large result set using a series of
requests, each of which returns a portion of the desired result.

=head4 offset

If enabled, this parameter indicates that the response should start at the
indicated position in the result set rather than at the beginning.  See also
L</limit>.

=head4 count

If enabled, a true value for this parameter indicates that the response should
include not only the result of the data service operation but also a count of
the number of records found, the number returned, and the elapsed time taken
in executing the operation.  A false value indicates that this information
should not be included.  The attribute L</default_count> specifies whether or
not that information will be included when this parameter is not specified.
This is a L<flag parameter|/"Flag parameters"> (see below).

=head4 datainfo

If enabled, a true value for this parameter indicates that the response should
include not only the result of the data service operation but also a set of
descriptive information about the data.  The attribute L</default_datainfo>
specifies whether or not that information will be included when this parameter
is not specified.  This is a L<flag parameter|/"Flag parameters"> (see
below).

=head4 header

If enabled, a true value for this parameter indicates that the response should
include header material, the contents of which varies according to the output
format and the values of the C<count> and C<datainfo> parameters if these are
enabled.  If false, no header material should be included.  This parameter is
ignored by the JSON output module.  With a text format response (tsv or csv),
if this parameter is provided with a false value then all header material is
suppressed and only the data records (one per line) are returned.  The
attribute L</default_header> specifies whether or not the header will be
included when this paramter is not specified.  This is a L<flag
parameter|/"Flag parameters"> (see below).

=head4 linebreak

If enabled, this parameter can be used to select the linebreak sequence used
with text format responses.  The accepted values are C<cr> for a carriage
return, C<lf> for a linefeed, and C<crlf> for a carriage return/linefeed
combination.  The default external name for this parameter is C<lb>.

=head4 save

If enabled, this parameter can be used to indicate that the response should be
saved to disk rather than displayed in a browser window.  The server will
provide the appropriate headers, but it is up to the web browser or other
client software to decide how to handle them.  If this parameter is provided
with a value other than C<yes>, C<no>, C<on>, C<off>, C<1>, C<0>, C<true>, or
C<false>, then this value will be used as the default filename with the
selected response format appended as a suffix.  You can also use the attribute
L</default_filename> to provide a default in case no filename was specified by
the client.

=head4 vocab

If enabled, this parameter can be used by the client to specify which
vocabulary to use in expressing the result of a data service operation.  The
client can use this to override the default vocabulary for the selected output
format, or to select a vocabulary if the format does not specify a default.
This special parameter is only relevant if you have defined one or more output
vocabularies for this data service.

=head3 foundation_plugin [req] [inst] [mod]

This attribute is not required if one of the known foundation frameworks
(currently only L<Dancer>) is already loaded.  If you put C<use Dancer> in
your main application file before the call to instantiate your data service,
then the plugin L<Web::DataService::Plugin::Dancer> will be loaded
automatically.

The purpose of this plugin module is to interact with the foundation
framework, to carry out tasks such as: receiving HTTP requests, producing HTTP
responses, and reading application configuration information.  The only reason
you might need to specify this attribute explicitly is if you wish to load a
different plugin and override the default choice.  If you do so, and the named
module is not already loaded, it will be automatically loaded.  See
L<Web::DataService::Plugins> for more about plugins.

=head3 templating_plugin [mod]

This attribute may be specified either at instantiation or in the
configuration file.  It must be the name of a Perl module, and will be loaded
at instantiation time if it has not already been loaded.  The purpose of this
plugin module is to interface with a templating engine for the purpose of
producing documentation pages and/or result pages [note: result pages are not
yet implemented].

If this attribute is not specified, and if the module L<Template> has already
been loaded, then the plugin L<Web::DataService::Plugin::TemplateToolkit> will
be loaded automatically.  If no templating plugin is loaded, then
documentation pages cannot be produced.  In that case, the features
'documentation' and 'doc_paths' will be disabled.

=head3 backend_plugin [mod]

This attribute may be specified either at instantiation or in the
configuration file.  It must be the name of a Perl module, and will be
required if not already loaded.  The purpose of this plugin module is to
acquire a connection to a backend database or other system for the purpose of
reading or modifying data in response to data service requests.

If this attribute is not specified, and if F<Dancer/Plugin/Database.pm> has
already been loaded, then the plugin L<Web::DataService::Plugin::Dancer> will
be used in this role.

Unlike the other two plugin attributes, this one is not essential.  Your own
code for implementing the data service operations may simply acquire a backend
database connection in whatever manner is appropriate.

=head3 title [req]

Provides a title by which this data service can be referred to in
documentation pages, etc.  This attribute is required, but may be specified
either at instantiation or in the configuration file.

=head3 version

If specified, the value of this attribute is included in the standard
documentation template as part of the page header.  You can increment this
whenever you make a change to the interface.  The value can be any string,
i.e. "23" or "1.2b5".

=head3 path_prefix

If specfied, the value of this attribute must be a string.  That string will
be removed from the front of each request URL path before the path is matched
to a data service node, and will be prepended to each URL path that is
generated as part of the documentation.

If you are running more than one data service at a time (i.e. multiple
versions) then one good way to arrange them is by setting a different path
prefix for each one.

=head3 key

If specified, the value of this attribute must be a string.  If you are
running multiple data services and do not wish to use different path prefixes
to differentiate them, you can instead enable the special parameter L<selector|/selector>
and set a different value of this attribute for each service.
Generated URLs will include the value of this attribute
as the value of the C<selector> parameter automatically.

=head3 ruleset_prefix

If specified, the value of this attribute must be a string.  It will be
prepended to any auto-generated ruleset names.

=head3 doc_suffix

If specified, the value of this attribute must be a string or quoted regex.
It is only relevant if the feature C<doc_paths> is enabled.  In that case, any
URL path ending in this string will have the string removed, and if the
resulting path matches a data service node then the response will be a
documentation page for that node.  If no node is matched, a 404 error will
result.

If not specified, the default value is '_doc'.

=head3 doc_index

If specified, the value of this attribute must be a string or quoted regex.
It is only relevant if the feature C<doc_paths> is enabled.  In that case, any
URL path ending in '/' followed by this string will have that last part
removed, and if the resulting path matches a data service node then the
response will be a documentation page for that node.  If no node is matched, a
404 error will result.

If not specified, the default value is 'index'.

=head3 doc_template_dir

If specified, the value of this attribute must be a directory path relative to
the application root directory.  Documentation template paths will be looked
up relative to this directory.

If not specified, the default value is F<doc> (relative to the application root
directory).

=head3 doc_output_dir

If specified, the value of this attribute must be a directory path relative to
the application root directory.  Output template paths will be looked
up relative to this directory.

If not specified, then templated output will not be available.  [Note:
templated output is not yet implemented].

=head3 data_source

If specified, the value of this attribute must be a string.  It will be
reported, if requested by the 'datainfo' parameter, in the header of the
response.  Its purpose is to indicate the project, database, etc. from which
the returned data has been drawn.

=head3 data_provider

If specified, the value of this attribute must be a string.  It will be
reported, if requested by the 'datainfo' parameter, in the header of the
response.  Its purpose is to indicate the organization which is providing this
data.

=head3 data_license

If specified, the value of this attribute must be a string.  It will be
reported, if requested by the 'datainfo' parameter, in the header of the
response.  Its purpose is to indicate the name of the license under which this
data is being made available.

=head3 license_url

If specified, the value of this attribute must be a valid URL.  It will be
reported, if requested by the 'datainfo' parameter, in the header of the
response.  Its purpose is provide a link by which more information about the
license terms may be found.

=head3 admin_name

If specified, the value of this attribute will be reported in the standard
documentation footer as the "contact person" to whom bug reports, feedback, or other
queries about this service should be addressed.

=head3 admin_email

If specified, the value of this attribute will be reported in the standard
documentation footer as the "contact address" to which bug reports, feedback, or other
queries about this service should be addressed.

=head1 AUTHOR

mmcclenn "at" cpan.org

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-web-dataservice at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Web-DataService>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2014 Michael McClennen, all rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

