package DBIx::Schema::Changelog::Cookbook;
$DBIx::Schema::Changelog::Cookbook::VERSION = '0.9.0';
__END__

=pod

=head1 NAME

DBIx::Schema::Changelog::Cookbook - A gentle introduction to DBIx::Schema::Changelog

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.9.0


=head1 DESCRIPTION

A simple guide to run the DBIx::Schema::Changelog.

=head1 RUNNING A CHANGELOG PROJECT
 
=head2 A simple example to crate a changelog project.

There is a strict hierarchy to read the changelogs.

	/changelog-directory
		|
		|-->changelog.<filetype>
		|-->changelog-<subname_1>.<filetype>
		|-->changelog-<...>.<filetype>
		|-->changelog-<subname_2>.<filetype>
 
The names for the sub changelogs can be known for all.

For more information how the changeset is written look at 
L<DBIx::Schema::Changelog::Cookbook::Changeset>.

=head2 A simple example to crate read the changelog project.

The changelog project can be written stand alone by command line tool.

For standard db C<SQLite>:

	changelog-run -db=<dbname> -s=/path/to/changelog

For specific db:

	changelog-run  -s='<path to changelog-directory>' -db='league;host=127.0.0.1' -u='<user>' -p='<password>' --driver=<driver name>	

And write it directly in your code.

For standard db C<SQLite>:

	my $dbh = DBI->connect( "dbi:SQLite:database=<dbname>" );
	DBIx::Schema::Changelog->new( dbh => $dbh)->read( '<path to changelog-directory>' );

For specific db:

	my $dbh = DBI->connect( "dbi:Pg:dbname=<dbname>;host=127.0.0.1", <driver name>, '<password>' );
	DBIx::Schema::Changelog->new( dbh => $dbh, db_driver => 'Pg' )->read( '<path to changelog-directory>' );

If your driver is not supported everyone is invited to read himself driver or write me.
The for more information to create an own driver look at: L<DBIx::Schema::Changelog::Cookbook::Driver>.

=head2 Create a specific file reader.

The changelog reader expect a hashref in the main changelog file.
And a arrayref in the sub changelog files.

The for more information to create an own file reader look at: L<DBIx::Schema::Changelog::Cookbook::File>.

=encoding utf8

=head1 AUTHOR

Mario Zieschang, C<< <mziescha at cpan.org> >>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015 Mario Zieschang.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the the Artistic License (2.0). You may obtain a
copy of the full license at:

L<http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>

Any use, modification, and distribution of the Standard or Modified
Versions is governed by this Artistic License. By using, modifying or
distributing the Package, you accept this license. Do not use, modify,
or distribute the Package, if you do not accept this license.

If your Modified Version has been derived from a Modified Version made
by someone other than you, you are nevertheless required to ensure that
your Modified Version complies with the requirements of this license.

This license does not grant you the right to use any trademark, service
mark, trade name, or logo of the Copyright Holder.

This license includes the non-exclusive, worldwide, free-of-charge
patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import and
otherwise transfer the Package with respect to any patent claims
licensable by the Copyright Holder that are necessarily infringed by the
Package. If you institute patent litigation (including a cross-claim or
counterclaim) against any party alleging that the Package constitutes
direct or contributory patent infringement, then this Artistic License
to you shall terminate on the date that such litigation is filed.

Disclaimer of Warranty: THE PACKAGE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER
AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES.
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANT ABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE DISCLAIMED TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
YOUR LOCAL LAW. UNLESS REQUIRED BY LAW, NO COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
CONTRIBUTOR WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THE PACKAGE,
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


=cut
