=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP09 - Metadata Exchange Implementation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    # Inherits from Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP10 (Extension Protocol)
    use Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP09;

    my $proto = Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP09->new(...);

    # Request segment 0 of the info dictionary
    $proto->send_metadata_request(0);

    # Handle incoming metadata pieces
    $proto->on(metadata_data => sub ( $emitter, $piece, $total, $data ) {
        say "Received metadata piece $piece of $total";
    });

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP09> implements the B<Extension for Peers to Send Metadata Files (BEP 09)>. This is the
protocol that makes B<Magnet Links> work by allowing a client to download the torrent's C<info> dictionary directly
from other peers when the local C<.torrent> file is missing.

It works as a sub-protocol of the B<Extension Protocol (BEP 10)>, using the C<ut_metadata> message name.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<send_metadata_request( $piece )>

Sends a metadata piece request.

    $proto->send_metadata_request( 0 );

This method sends a C<ut_metadata> request for a 16KiB segment of the torrent's metadata.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$piece>

The zero-based metadata piece index.

=back

=head2 C<send_metadata_data( $piece, $total_size, $data )>

Sends a metadata piece.

    $proto->send_metadata_data( 0, 32768, $piece_data );

This method provides a segment of the info dictionary to a peer in response to a request.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$piece>

The metadata piece index.

=item C<$total_size>

The full length of the bencoded info dictionary in bytes.

=item C<$data>

The raw 16KiB piece data.

=back

=head2 C<send_metadata_reject( $piece )>

Rejects a metadata request.

    $proto->send_metadata_reject( 0 );

This method informs the peer that the requested metadata segment cannot be provided.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$piece>

The metadata piece index.

=back

=head2 C<metadata_request> event

Emitted when a metadata request is received.

    $proto->on( metadata_request => sub ( $self, $piece ) { ... } );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$piece>

The requested metadata piece index.

=back

=head2 C<metadata_data> event

Emitted when metadata data is received.

    $proto->on( metadata_data => sub ( $self, $piece, $total_size, $data ) { ... } );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$piece>

The metadata piece index.

=item C<$total_size>

The total size of the metadata.

=item C<$data>

The received piece data.

=back

=head2 C<metadata_reject> event

Emitted when a metadata request is rejected.

    $proto->on( metadata_reject => sub ( $self, $piece ) { ... } );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$piece>

The piece index that was rejected.

=back

=head1 SPECIFICATIONS

=over

=item * B<BEP 09>: Extension for Peers to Send Metadata Files

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson - L<https://github.com/sanko>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2008-2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
