=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03 - Core BitTorrent Peer Wire Protocol

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03;

    my $proto = Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03->new(
        infohash => $ih,
        peer_id  => $id
    );

    # Generate initial handshake
    my $out = $proto->write_buffer( );

    # Process incoming bytes from the socket
    $proto->receive_data( $raw_bytes );

    # Send a custom message
    $proto->send_message( 4, pack('N', $piece_index) ); # HAVE

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03> implements the foundational B<BitTorrent Peer Wire Protocol (BEP 03)>. It is a
stateful, loop-agnostic parser and generator for the binary messages exchanged between peers over TCP (or uTP).

This module handles the initial handshake, reserved bit negotiation, and the framing of all standard messages (choke,
unchoke, interested, have, bitfield, request, piece, etc.).

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<new( %params )>

Creates a new BEP03 protocol handler.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<infohash>

The 20 or 32-byte binary infohash.

=item C<peer_id>

The local 20-byte binary peer ID.

=item C<reserved> - optional

The 8-byte reserved bits string.

=back

=head2 C<send_handshake( )>

Sends the initial protocol handshake.

    $proto->send_handshake();

=head2 C<receive_data( $data )>

Feeds raw data into the protocol parser.

    $proto->receive_data( $chunk );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$data>

The binary data received from the transport.

=back

=head2 C<write_buffer( )>

Returns pending messages from the output buffer.

    my $out = $proto->write_buffer();

=head2 C<send_message( $id, [$payload] )>

Queues a protocol message.

    $proto->send_message( 4, pack('N', 42) ); # HAVE piece 42

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$id>

The numeric message ID.

=item C<$payload> - optional

The raw binary payload.

=back

=head2 C<send_keepalive( )>

Queues a keep-alive message.

    $proto->send_keepalive();

=head2 C<send_choke( )>

Sends a CHOKE message.

=head2 C<send_unchoke( )>

Sends an UNCHOKE message.

=head2 C<send_interested( )>

Sends an INTERESTED message.

=head2 C<send_not_interested( )>

Sends a NOT_INTERESTED message.

=head2 C<send_have( $index )>

Sends a HAVE message.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$index>

The piece index.

=back

=head2 C<send_bitfield( $data )>

Sends a BITFIELD message.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$data>

The binary bitfield data.

=back

=head2 C<set_reserved_bit( $byte, $mask )>

Sets a bit in the reserved bytes of the handshake.

    $proto->set_reserved_bit( 5, 0x10 );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$byte>

The byte index (0-7).

=item C<$mask>

The bitmask to apply.

=back

=head2 C<handshake> event

Emitted when a handshake is successfully received.

    $proto->on( handshake => sub ( $self, $ih, $id ) { ... } );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$ih>

The 20 or 32-byte binary infohash.

=item C<$id>

The 20-byte binary peer ID.

=back

=head2 C<peer_id( )>

Returns the local peer ID.

=head2 C<reserved( )>

Returns or sets the reserved bytes string.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$val> - optional

The new 8-byte reserved string.

=back

=head2 C<state( )>

Returns the current protocol state ('HANDSHAKE', 'OPEN', or 'CLOSED').

=head2 C<detected_ih( )>

Returns the infohash detected during the handshake (useful for trackers/servers).

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson - L<https://github.com/sanko>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2008-2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
