=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP11 - Peer Exchange (PEX) Implementation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    # Inherits from Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP09
    use Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP11;

    # Notify peer about new and dropped neighbors
    $proto->send_pex(
        [{ ip => '1.2.3.4', port => 6881 }], # added
        [{ ip => '5.6.7.8', port => 6881 }]  # dropped
    );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP11> implements the Peer Exchange (PEX, BEP 11) protocol. PEX allows peers to directly
share the addresses of other peers they are connected to, dramatically reducing the time it takes to find a healthy
swarm and reducing load on trackers and DHT nodes.

It runs as a sub-protocol of the Extension Protocol (BEP 10) under the name C<ut_pex>.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<send_pex( [$added], [$dropped], [$added6], [$dropped6] )>

Sends a Peer Exchange update.

    $proto->send_pex(
        [{ ip => '1.2.3.4', port => 6881 }],
        [{ ip => '5.6.7.8', port => 6881 }]
    );

This method sends a C<ut_pex> message containing lists of newly discovered and recently disconnected peers.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$added> - optional

Array reference of newly discovered IPv4 peers. Each must be a hash reference with C<ip> and C<port>.

=item C<$dropped> - optional

Array reference of IPv4 peers that have disconnected.

=item C<$added6> - optional

Array reference of newly discovered IPv6 peers.

=item C<$dropped6> - optional

Array reference of IPv6 peers that have disconnected.

=back

=head2 C<pex> event

Emitted when a PEX message is received.

    $proto->on( pex => sub ( $self, $added, $dropped, $added6, $dropped6 ) { ... } );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$added>

Array reference of added IPv4 peers.

=item C<$dropped>

Array reference of dropped IPv4 peers.

=item C<$added6>

Array reference of added IPv6 peers.

=item C<$dropped6>

Array reference of dropped IPv6 peers.

=back

=head1 SPECIFICATIONS

=over

=item * BEP 11: Peer Exchange (PEX)

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson - L<https://github.com/sanko>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2008-2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
