=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::HandshakeOnly - Minimal PWP Handshake Handler

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::HandshakeOnly;

    my $proto = Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::HandshakeOnly->new(
        on_handshake_cb => sub ( $ih, $id ) {
            say "Received handshake for $ih from $id";
        },
        peer_id => $my_id
    );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::HandshakeOnly> is a specialized subclass of L<Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03> used for
protocol autodetection. It processes the initial BitTorrent handshake and then triggers a callback, allowing the client
to upgrade the connection to a full protocol handler once the infohash is identified.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<new( %params )>

Creates a new HandshakeOnly object.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<on_handshake_cb>

A code reference that is called when a valid handshake is received. It receives the binary infohash and peer ID as
arguments.

=item C<peer_id>

The local 20-byte binary peer ID.

=back

=head2 C<handshake> event

Emitted when a handshake is successfully received.

    $proto->on( handshake => sub ( $self, $ih, $id ) { ... } );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$infohash>

The 20 or 32-byte binary infohash.

=item C<$peer_id>

The 20-byte binary peer ID.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP03>

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson - L<https://github.com/sanko>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2008-2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
