=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::MSE - Message Stream Encryption (PE/MSE)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::MSE;

    my $mse = Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::MSE->new(
        infohash     => $bin_ih,
        is_initiator => 1
    );

    # Step 1: Send initial Public Key
    my $out = $mse->write_buffer( );

    # Step 2: Feed data from socket until state is 'PAYLOAD'
    while ($mse->state ne 'PAYLOAD') {
        $mse->receive_data($raw_incoming);
        my $reply = $mse->write_buffer( );
        # send $reply to peer
    }

    # Step 3: Transparently encrypt/decrypt PWP messages
    my $encrypted = $mse->encrypt_data( $pwp_payload );
    my $plain     = $mse->decrypt_data( $raw_from_socket );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module implements the Message Stream Encryption protocol used by BitTorrent to avoid traffic shaping and improve
privacy. It provides a layer of obfuscation for BitTorrent traffic, helping to prevent passive traffic analysis and
"throttling" by ISPs.

=head2 Security Disclaimer

MSE is B<not> designed to provide strong cryptographic security or authentication. It is purely an obfuscation layer
designed to make the BitTorrent protocol difficult to identify via simple pattern matching.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<new( %params )>

Creates a new MSE handler object.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<infohash>

The 20-byte binary infohash of the torrent. Can be C<undef> for initiators if using C<on_infohash_probe>.

=item C<is_initiator>

Boolean. True if we are starting the connection.

=item C<on_infohash_probe> - optional

A code reference used by the responder to identify the infohash in incoming connections.

=item C<allow_plaintext> - optional

Boolean. Whether to allow falling back to plaintext. Defaults to true.

=back

=head2 C<receive_data( $data )>

Handles incoming handshake or payload data.

    my $decrypted = $mse->receive_data( $raw_chunk );

This method processes the MSE handshake phases. Once the handshake is complete (state is 'PAYLOAD'), it returns
decrypted data.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$data>

The raw data received from the transport.

=back

=head2 C<encrypt_data( $data )>

Encrypts outgoing data.

    my $encrypted = $mse->encrypt_data( $pwp_message );

This method encrypts data using the negotiated RC4 key if the handshake is complete.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$data>

The plaintext data to encrypt.

=back

=head2 C<decrypt_data( $data )>

Decrypts incoming data.

    my $decrypted = $mse->decrypt_data( $raw_chunk );

Alias for C<receive_data>.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$data>

The encrypted data.

=back

=head2 C<write_buffer( )>

Returns pending bytes that must be sent to the remote peer to advance the handshake or provide encryption responses.

    my $out = $mse->write_buffer();

=head2 C<supported( )>

Returns true if MSE is supported by the system.

    say "MSE enabled" if $mse->supported();

=head2 C<state( )>

Returns the current MSE handshake state:

=over

=item * C<A_WAIT_PUBKEY>, C<B_WAIT_PUBKEY>: Waiting for Diffie-Hellman exchange.

=item * C<A_WAIT_SELECT>, C<B_WAIT_REQS>: Synchronizing on the infohash.

=item * C<PAYLOAD>: Handshake complete; stream is now obfuscated.

=back

=head2 C<buffer_in( )>

Returns the internal input buffer.

=head2 C<buffer_out( )>

Returns the internal output buffer.

=head1 ARCHITECTURE

MSE uses a 768-bit Diffie-Hellman key exchange to derive a shared secret, which is then used to seed two RC4 stream
ciphers (one for each direction).

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson - L<https://github.com/sanko>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2008-2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
