=pod

=head1 Caffeinated Markup Language

Please see the main page at 
L<http://necrophonic.github.io/text-caffeinatedmarkup> as well as the
wiki at
L<https://github.com/necrophonic/text-caffeinatedmarkup/wiki>
for details for the language and usage guides.

=head2 What is it?

The I<Caffeinated Markup Language> is an attempt to create a simple yet rich markup language.
It is inspired by the best bits of other markup (and markdown) languages and builds on
them with more features whilst not sacrificing source doc readability and ease of use.

The idea is to be able to markup a document simply and quickly without polluting with
too much markup furniture or needing to embed foreign markup to acheive good layout.


=head2 Is this production ready?

The current version is beta so not recommended for production use.


=head2 What output formats are supported?

Currently the only formatter is L<Text::CaffeinatedMarkup::HTMLFormatter> but feel
free to write your own.


=head2 How do I write a new output formatter?

Currently the only parser is the L<Text::CaffeinatedMarkup::PullParser> which provides
a sequential tokenized stream from the input file. Check out the existing HTML parser
(L<Text::CaffeinatedMarkup::HTMLFormatter>) for an example.

At some point I'll get around to writing a proper guide. More than likely once the 
push parser and non blocking features have been fully implemented.


=head2 Where can I find out more?

Check out:

=over 2

=item * L<Github repo|http://github.com/necrophonic/text-caffeinatedmarkup>

=item * L<Github wiki|http://github.com/necrophonic/text-caffeinatedmarkup/wiki>

=back


=head2 How about performance?

The current CML is an early build but performance is being factored in. There are no
specific metrics yet but there will be and I'll be striving to get the performance
as fast as possible. See L</"Is there an XS version?">


=head2 Is there an XS version?

Not yet, but it's on the roadmap.


=head1 Author

J Gregory <jgregory@cpan.org>

=cut
