=head1 NAME

Leyland::Manual - Manual for the Leyland web application framework

=head1 WHAT IS LEYLAND

	This section is just a copy of L<Leyland/"DESCRIPTION">.

Leyland is a L<Plack>-based application framework for building truely
RESTful, MVC-style web applications. It is feature rich and highly
extensible.

=head2 FEATURES

=over

=item * B<Build truely RESTful web applications:> Leyland was designed from
the ground up according to the Representational State Transfer style of
software architecture. Leyland applications perform real HTTP negotiations,
(can) provide different representations of the same resource easily, respond
with proper HTTP status codes, throw real HTTP exceptions, etc.

=item * B<Automatic data (de)serialization> - Leyland automatically
serializes resources to representations in the format your client
wants to receive, like JSON and XML. It will also automatically deserialize
JSON/XML requests coming from the client to Perl data-structures.

=item * B<Pure UTF-8> - Leyland applications are pure UTF-8. Anything your
application receives is automatically UTF-8 decoded, and anything your
application sends is automatically UTF-8 encoded. Leyland apps will not
accept, nor provide, content in a different character set. If you want to
use different/multiple encodings, then Leyland is not for you.

=item * B<Localize for the client, not the server> - Pretty much every other
application framework only concerns itself with localizing the application
to the locale of the machine on which it is running. I find that this is
rarely useful nor interesting to the application developer. Leyland localizes for
the client, not the server. If the client wants to view your application
(which may be a simple website) in Hebrew, and your application supports
Hebrew, then you can easily provide him with Hebrew representations.
Leyland uses L<Locale::Wolowitz> for this purpose.

=item * B<< Easy deployment and middleware support via L<Plack> >> - Leyland doesn't
support Plack, it is dependant on it. Leyland's entire session support,
for example, depends on Plack's L<Session|Plack::Middleware::Session>
middleware. Use the full power of Plack in your Leyland application.

=item * B<Lightweight> - Leyland is much smaller than L<Catalyst> or other
major frameworks, while still providing lots of features. While it is not
a "micro-framework", it is pretty small. If you're looking for an extremely
lightweight solution, my other framework - L<McBain> - might fit your need.

=item * B<Flexible, extensible> - Leyland was designed to be as flexible and
as extensible as possible - where flexibility matters, and strict - where
constistency and convention are appropriate. Leyland goes to great lengths
to give you the ability to do things the way you want to, and more
importantly - the way your end-users want to. Your applications listen to
your users' preferences and automatically decide on a suitable course of action.
Leyland is also L<Moo> based, making it easy to extend and tweak its behavior
(and making it L<Moose> compatible).

=item * B<Doesn't have a pony> - You don't really need a pony, do you?

=back

=head1 WHAT IS THIS MANUAL

This manual is your guide to creating Leyland-based web applications.
Hopefully, it will provide you with all the knowledge you need to create
Leyland applications and utilize its full potential.

=head1 TABLE OF CONTENTS

The guide is divided into the following sections (order purely a suggestion,
but you probably should read L<Leyland::Manual::Applications> first):

=over

=item 1. L<Leyland::Manual::Applications> - Describes Leyland application
structure and how to create (more correctly initialize) and configure
Leyland applications.

=item 2. L<Leyland::Manual::Controllers> - Describes controllers, routes,
resources, representations, etc.

=item 3. L<Leyland::Manual::Views> - Describes view classes and their usage.

=item 4. L<Leyland::Manual::Models> - Describes models and their usage.

=item 5. L<Leyland::Manual::StaticFiles> - Describes how to serve static
files from your application.

=item 6. L<Leyland::Manual::Localization> - Describes how application
localization is performed.

=item 7. L<Leyland::Manual::Logging> - Describes how to use Leyland's
logging facilities.

=item 8. L<Leyland::Manual::Exceptions> - To err is human, to throw proper
HTTP exceptions divine.

=item 9. L<Leyland::Manual::Deployment> - Describes how to run/deploy/test
Leyland applications.

=item 10. L<Leyland::Manual::Extending> - Describes how to extend Leyland.

=item 11. L<Leyland::Manual::FAQ> - Contains frequently asked questions
and their answers.

=item 12. L<Leyland::Manual::Upgrading> - Contains information about upgrading
Leyland for existing applications.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Ido Perlmuter, C<< <ido at ido50.net> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-Leyland at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Leyland>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

	perldoc Leyland::Manual

You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Leyland>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Leyland>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Leyland>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Leyland/>

=back

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2010-2014 Ido Perlmuter.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.

=cut
