=head1 NAME

Config::Model::models::Approx - Configuration class Approx

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Configuration classes used by L<Config::Model>

Configuration model for Approx

=head1 Elements

=head2 cache - approx cache directory

Specifies the location of the approx cache directory (default: /var/cache/approx). It and all its subdirectories must be owned by the approx server (see also the $user and $group parameters, below.)I<< Optional. Type uniline. upstream_default: '/var/cache/approx'.  >> 

=head2 interval - file cache expiration in minutes

Specifies the time in minutes after which a cached file will be considered too old to deliver without first checking with the remote repository for a newer version. I<< Optional. Type integer. upstream_default: '720'.  >> 

=head2 max_rate - maximum download rate from remote repositories

Specifies the maximum download rate from remote repositories, in bytes per second (default: unlimited). The value may be suffixed with "K", "M", or "G" to indicate kilobytes, megabytes, or gigabytes per second, respectively.I<< Optional. Type uniline.  >> 

=head2 max_redirects - maximum number of HTTP redirections

Specifies the maximum number of HTTP redirections that will be followed when downloading a remote file. I<< Optional. Type integer. upstream_default: '5'.  >> 

=head2 user - user that owns the files in the approx cache

I<< Optional. Type uniline. upstream_default: 'approx'.  >> 

=head2 group - group that owns the files in the approx cache

I<< Optional. Type uniline. upstream_default: 'approx'.  >> 

=head2 syslog - syslog(3) facility to use when logging

I<< Optional. Type uniline. upstream_default: 'daemon'.  >> 

=head2 pdiffs - support IndexFile diffs

I<< Optional. Type boolean. upstream_default: '1'.  >> 

=head2 offline - use cached files when offline

Specifies whether to deliver (possibly out-of-date) cached files when they cannot be downloaded from remote repositories. I<< Optional. Type boolean. upstream_default: '0'.  >> 

=head2 max_wait - max wait for concurrent file download

Specifies how many seconds an approx(8) process will wait for a concurrent download of a file to complete, before attempting to download the file itself. I<< Optional. Type integer. upstream_default: '10'.  >> 

=head2 verbose

Specifies whether informational messages should be printed in the log. I<< Optional. Type boolean. upstream_default: '0'.  >> 

=head2 debug

Specifies whether debug messages should be printed in the log. I<< Optional. Type boolean. upstream_default: '0'.  >> 

=head2 distributions - remote repositories

The other name/value pairs are used to map distribution names to remote repositories. For example,

  debian     =>   http://ftp.debian.org/debian
  security   =>   http://security.debian.org/debian-security

Use the distribution name as the key of the hash element and the URL as the value
. I<< Optional. Type hash of uniline.  >> 

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item *

L<cme>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

=over

=item Dominique Dumont


=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

=over

=item 2011, Dominique Dumont


=back

=head1 LICENSE

=over

=item LGPL-2.1+


=back

=cut

