=encoding utf8

=head1 Mojolicious::Plugin::Minion::Workers

Доброго всем

¡ ¡ ¡ ALL GLORY TO GLORIA ! ! !

=head1 VERSION

0.09073 (up to Minion 9.07/100+C<my minors>)

=head1 NAME

Mojolicious::Plugin::Minion::Workers - does extend base Mojolicious::Plugin::Minion
on manage Minion workers.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # Mojolicious (define amount workers in config)
  $self->plugin('Minion::Workers' => {Pg => ..., workers=>2});
  # or pass to $app->minion->manage_workers(<num>) later
  $self->plugin('Minion::Workers' => {Pg => ...});

  # Mojolicious::Lite (define amount workers in config)
  plugin 'Minion::Workers' => {Pg => ..., workers=>2};

  # Add tasks to your application
  app->minion->add_task(slow_log => sub {
    my ($job, $msg) = @_;
    sleep 5;
    $job->app->log->debug(qq{Received message "$msg"});
  });
  
  # Allow manage with amount workers (gets from config)
  app->minion->manage_workers();
  # or override config workers by pass
  app->minion->manage_workers(4);

  # Start jobs from anywhere in your application

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::Minion::Workers> is a L<Mojolicious> plugin for the L<Minion> job
queue and has extending base L<Mojolicious::Plugin::Minion> for enable workers managment.

=head1 Manage workers

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::Minion::Workers> has patch the L<Minion> module on the following new one method.

=head2 manage_workers(int)

Start/restart Minion passed amount workers or get its from plugin config.
None workers mean skip managment.

  $app->minion->manage_workers(1);

Tested on standard commands (on Linux):

  $ perl script/app.pl daemon      # one minion worker will be starting
  $ perl script/app.pl prefork        # your amount minion workers will be starting
  $ morbo script/app.pl                  # when morbo restarts on watch changes one minion worker will be restarting too
  $ hypnotoad script/app.pl           # your amount minion workers will be starting
  $ hypnotoad script/app.pl           # on hot deploy minion workers will be restarting too
  $ hypnotoad -s script/app.pl        # minion workers will stoping too

B<NOTE>. For commands C<$ morbo script/app.pl> and C<$ perl script/app.pl daemon>
workers always one.

B<NOTE>. In case hypnotoad and C<$ kill -USR2 app_pid> minion workers will not restarts, sorry.
Always use command C<$ hypnotoad script/app.pl>.

B<BIG NOTE>. When minion workers restarts then B<ALL> exists processes stoped.
So if you run many separate apps then dont use this module.

=head1 HELPERS

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::Minion::Workers> enable all helpers from base plugin L<Mojolicious::Plugin::Minion>,
thus you dont need apply base plugin (auto register).

=head1 METHODS

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::Minion::Workers> inherits all methods from
L<Mojolicious::Plugin::Minion> and override the following new ones.

=head2 register

  $plugin->register(Mojolicious->new, {Pg => ..., worker=>1});

Register plugin in L<Mojolicious> application.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::Minion>, L<Minion>, L<Mojolicious::Guides>, L<https://mojolicious.org>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Михаил Че (Mikhail Che), C<< <mche[-at-]cpan.org> >>

=head1 BUGS / CONTRIBUTING

Please report any bugs or feature requests at L<https://github.com/mche/Mojolicious-Plugin-Minion-Workers/issues>.
Pull requests also welcome.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019+ Mikhail Che.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.


=cut
