=head1 NAME

MIME::DB - Media Type Database, a port of the mime-db JavaScript package

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use MIME::DB;
    my $db = MIME::DB->data;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<MIME::DB> is a direct port of the L<mime-db|https://www.npmjs.com/package/mime-db> JavaScript package.

=head2 USAGE

The database does not include any logic, allowing it to remain as un-opinionated as possible.

    my $db = MIME::DB->data;

    my @known_html_extensions = @{ $db->{'text/html'}->{extensions} || [] };

    my $version = MIME::DB->version;

    print "As of version $version:\n";

    for (qw(text/html video/mp4 text/yaml)) {
        if (defined $db->{$_}->{compressible}) {
            if ($db->{$_}->{compressible}) {
                print "  - $_ is compressible\n"
            } else {
                print "  - $_ is not compressible\n"
            }
        } else {
            print "  - $_ compressibility is unknown\n"
        }
    }

=over 4

=item data

returns the database as a HASH reference.

Each call to C<data> returns an independent copy of the database, so it can be modified without affecting others.

It is highly recommended to store it in a variable if several calls are to be issued, for performance reasons.

=item version

returns the version of the database.

This might be different from C<$VERSION>.

=back

=head1 Data Structure

The database is a HASH reference with lowercased mime types as keys. Each value is a HASH reference with following keys:

=over 4

=item * source - where the mime type is defined. If not set, it's probably a custom media type.

=over 4

=item * apache - Apache common media types

=item * iana - IANA-defined media types

=item * nginx - nginx media types

=back

=item * extensions - an ARRAY reference of known extensions associated with this mime type.

=item * compressible - a 0 or 1 value indicating whether a file of this type can be gzipped.

=item * charset - the default charset associated with this type, if any.

=back

If unknown, every property could be undefined.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<mime-db github homepage|https://github.com/jshttp/mime-db>

=head1 AUTHOR

=over 2

=item * Thomas Drugeon, E<lt>tdrugeon@cpan.orgE<gt>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

L<mime-db|https://github.com/jshttp/mime-db> is copyright 2014 Jonathan Ong and licensed under the MIT License

L<MIME::DB> is copyright 2021 Thomas Drugeon and licensed under the MIT License

=cut
