=head1 NAME

App::Pods2Site - converting pods to HTML site

Find all pods and convert them to linked HTML pages, and add some extra parts on top to bind them together
as a simple documentation site for your Perl installation.

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.010

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # Normally run 'pods2site' from a shell prompt to create or update:
  #
  pods2site /path/to/site

=head1 OVERVIEW

This package is an application, generally intended to be run from a command line.

It was inspired by the HTML documentation present in an ActivePerl installation, and which was
updatable by using the 'ap-update-html' application after new modules had been installed.

As I also use other Perl distributions on both Windows and Linux, I felt the need to have a simple way
to generate something similar anywhere. Hence, this tool which generates a no-frills site similarly looking.

In short, this application will by default create a simple site based on all pods found in the distribution it's installed
in. As modules are updated/installed in the distribution, the application can be run again and efficiently update
the documentation site.

However, it also allows you to search arbitrary locations for pods, as well as cherrypick among the found pods and
skip ones of no interest to you.

=head1 FUNCTION

The overall function is simple:

Use the L<Config> module in the running Perl to find all pods, convert them using L<Pod::Html> and lastly, generate an index page
as well as a TOC and tie it all together. Point a browser at F<index.html> and you're good to go.

At any time, the command can be run again, and this time it will reuse the same options as before and update the site if any pods
are new or newer than the corresponding HTML file.

Taking a cue from the ActivePerl way of collecting the pods, pods are divided in 4 categories. The rules for doing this are fairly
simpleminded and heuristic though, so occasionally you may find a module that doesn't really conform to the categorization. Sorry.

Further, you may miss documentation for scripts or modules you know are there - this typically means that they don't contain any POD
text. Talk to the module author.

Lastly, due to how L<Pod::HTML> sometimes seem to reason on how links should be fulfilled, they may not necessarily go where you
expect.

=over

=item * Core

This group, as far as I can surmise, are found as pod files in the lib 'pods' directory and named 'perl...'. Technically, this means that they should
be named as 'pods::perlxxx', but as many modules and other pods use links with just 'perlxxx', behind the scenes they are set up to be found in the root also.

=item * Scripts

This group is found in the bin directories (e.g. the F<pods2site> command itself).

=item * Pragmas

Defined as modules with a (top-level) name starting with a lowercase a-z, such as 'attributes' but also 'autodie::Scope::Guard'.

=item * Modules

Everything else.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Kenneth Olwing, C<< <knth at cpan.org> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-app-pods2site at rt.cpan.org>,
or through the web interface at
L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=App-Pods2Site>. I will be
notified, and then you'll automatically be notified of progress on your bug as
I make changes.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc App::Pods2Site

You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker (report bugs here)

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=App-Pods2Site>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/App-Pods2Site>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/App-Pods2Site>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://metacpan.org/dist/App-Pods2Site/>

=back

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

I thank my family for putting up with me!

=head1 REPOSITORY

L<https://github.com/kenneth-olwing/App-Pods2Site>.

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2017 Kenneth Olwing.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the the Artistic License (2.0). You may obtain a
copy of the full license at:

L<http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>

Any use, modification, and distribution of the Standard or Modified
Versions is governed by this Artistic License. By using, modifying or
distributing the Package, you accept this license. Do not use, modify,
or distribute the Package, if you do not accept this license.

If your Modified Version has been derived from a Modified Version made
by someone other than you, you are nevertheless required to ensure that
your Modified Version complies with the requirements of this license.

This license does not grant you the right to use any trademark, service
mark, tradename, or logo of the Copyright Holder.

This license includes the non-exclusive, worldwide, free-of-charge
patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import and
otherwise transfer the Package with respect to any patent claims
licensable by the Copyright Holder that are necessarily infringed by the
Package. If you institute patent litigation (including a cross-claim or
counterclaim) against any party alleging that the Package constitutes
direct or contributory patent infringement, then this Artistic License
to you shall terminate on the date that such litigation is filed.

Disclaimer of Warranty: THE PACKAGE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER
AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES.
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE DISCLAIMED TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
YOUR LOCAL LAW. UNLESS REQUIRED BY LAW, NO COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
CONTRIBUTOR WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THE PACKAGE,
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

=cut
