
=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Unicode::Diacritic::Strip - strip diacritics from Unicode text

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    
    use utf8;
    use Unicode::Diacritic::Strip ':all';
    my $in = 'àÀâÂäçéÉèÈêÊëîïôùÙûüÜがぎぐげご';
    print strip_diacritics ($in), "\n";
    print fast_strip ($in), "\n";
    


produces output

    aAaAaceEeEeEeiiouUuuUかきくけこ
    aAaAaceEeEeEeiiouUuuUがぎぐげご


(This example is included as L<F<synopsis.pl>|https://fastapi.metacpan.org/source/BKB/Unicode-Diacritic-Strip-0.13/examples/synopsis.pl> in the distribution.)


=head1 VERSION

This documents Unicode::Diacritic::Strip version 0.13
corresponding to git commit L<1659e34a4150d1257da209a0e6078b6cd777be95|https://github.com/benkasminbullock/Unicode-Diacritic-Strip/commit/1659e34a4150d1257da209a0e6078b6cd777be95> released on Mon Oct 21 14:26:51 2019 +0900.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module offers two ways to remove diacritics from Unicode
text. One of them, L</strip_diacritics>, uses the Unicode
decompositions to break the characters down. The other one,
L</fast_strip>, is a faster alternative based on a hash of
alphabetical characters with and without diacritics. There is also
L</strip_alphabet>, which is the same as L</strip_diacritics>, but it
also returns a list of what characters were changed.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 strip_diacritics

    my $stripped = strip_diacritics ($text);

Strip diacritics from C<$text>. The diacritics are as defined by the
Unicode Character Database. See L<Unicode::UCD>.

=head2 strip_alphabet

    my ($stripped, $swaps) = strip_alphabet ($text);

Strip diacritics from C<$text> in the same way as
L</strip_diacritics>, and also return the alphabet of diacritic to
non-diacritic characters as a hash reference.

    
    use utf8;
    use FindBin '$Bin';
    use Unicode::Diacritic::Strip 'strip_alphabet';
    my $stuff = '89. ročník udílení Oscarů';
    my ($out, $list) = strip_alphabet ($stuff);
    for my $k (keys %$list) {
        print "$k was converted to $list->{$k}\n";
    }


produces output

    č was converted to c
    ů was converted to u
    í was converted to i


(This example is included as L<F<strip-alphabet.pl>|https://fastapi.metacpan.org/source/BKB/Unicode-Diacritic-Strip-0.13/examples/strip-alphabet.pl> in the distribution.)


This was added to the module in version 0.08. Prior to that it was in
another module called Unicode::StripDiacritics which I wrote as a
duplicate of this module, but fortunately hadn't released to CPAN.

=head2 fast_strip

    my $stripped = fast_strip ($text);

Rapidly strip alphabetical Unicode characters to the nearest plain
ASCII equivalents. This is just a big list of characters and a
substitution statement which zaps them into ASCII. It also contains a
few other things like the thorn character and a ligature.

    
    use utf8;
    use FindBin '$Bin';
    use Unicode::Diacritic::Strip 'fast_strip';
    my $unicode = 'Bjørn Łódź';
    print fast_strip ($unicode), "\n";
    


produces output

    Bjorn Lodz


(This example is included as L<F<ask.pl>|https://fastapi.metacpan.org/source/BKB/Unicode-Diacritic-Strip-0.13/examples/ask.pl> in the distribution.)


This was added to the module in version 0.07. It has been in service
for several years at the following website:
L<http://www.sljfaq.org/cgi/e2k.cgi> for converting the user's inputs
into the closest English equivalent. It was changed from a C<tr> to a
substitution in version 0.12.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head2 CPAN modules

=over

=item L<Text::Undiacritic>

This overlaps with Unicode::Diacritic::Strip.

=item L<Text::Unidecode>

This somewhat bizarre module converts any Unicode to ASCII.

=item L<Text::Unaccent>

This is an XS module dating from more than ten years ago which has
problems compiling on 64 bit systems.

=item L<Text::Unaccent::PurePerl>

=item L<Text::Transliterator::Unaccent>

=item L<Text::StripAccents>

=item L<Unicode::Homoglyph::Replace>

=back

=head2 Web pages

L<How to remove diacritic marks from
characters|http://ahinea.com/en/tech/accented-translate.html> by Ivan
Kurmanov.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

=over

=item L<Unicode::UCD>

=back

=head1 EXPORTS

Nothing is exported by default. The functions L</strip_diacritics>,
L</strip_alphabet>, and L</fast_strip> are exported on demand. A tag
C<:all> exports all the functions from the module.

=head1 BUGS

=over

=item Test failures on Perl 5.14

The test failures on CPAN testers for version 0.08 of this module and
Perl version 5.14, such as
L<these|http://matrix.cpantesters.org/?dist=Unicode-Diacritic-Strip%200.08;os=linux;perl=5.14.2;reports=1>,
containing the error string

    perl: hv.c:2663: S_unshare_hek_or_pvn: Assertion `he->shared_he_he.hent_hek == hek' failed.

are due to a bug in that version of Perl, and are completely beyond my
control. Unicode::Diacritic::Strip is a pure Perl module with no XS
components. (I have tried to contact the tester responsible for these
reports with no success, due to the registered email address
bouncing.)

=back



=head1 AUTHOR

Ben Bullock, <bkb@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENCE

This package and associated files are copyright (C) 
2012-2019
Ben Bullock.

You can use, copy, modify and redistribute this package and associated
files under the Perl Artistic Licence or the GNU General Public
Licence.




