package Perinci::Manual::Reference::FunctionMetadata::Arguments::PropertyAttributeIndex; # just to make podweaver happy

# AUTHORITY
# DATE
our $DIST = 'Perinci-Manual'; # DIST
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Alphabetical list of properties/attributes used in argument specification in Rinci function metadata

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Perinci::Manual::Reference::FunctionMetadata::Arguments::PropertyAttributeIndex - Alphabetical list of properties/attributes used in argument specification in Rinci function metadata

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.010 of Perinci::Manual::Reference::FunctionMetadata::Arguments::PropertyAttributeIndex (from Perl distribution Perinci-Manual), released on 2022-07-22.

=head1 INDEX

=head2 cmdline.*

Since 2012. Observed by C<Perinci::CmdLine::*>.

=head2 cmdline.chomp

Since 2016-01-22.

Observed by L<Perinci::CmdLine::Base>.

=head2 cmdline_aliases

=head2 cmdline_on_getopt

L<Rinci> standard 1.1.43.

=head2 cmdline_src

L<Rinci> standard.

=head2 completion

L<Rinci> standard.

=head2 default

L<Rinci> standard.

Note: an alternative is to set default in schema's C<default> clause.

=head2 element_completion

L<Rinci> standard.

=head2 form.*

Since 2015-09-22.

Observed by L<Borang>.

=head2 index_completion

Since 2016-12-10.

L<Rinci> standard since 1.1.82.

=head2 pos

L<Rinci> standard.

=head2 req

L<Rinci> standard.

=head2 schema

L<Rinci> standard. See L<Rinci::function>.

=head2 x.app.rimetadb.exclude

Since 2019-08-14.

Bool. Observed by L<App::rimetadb>. This setting allows allow excluding this
function argument from being included in the database.

See also:
L<Perinci::Manual::Reference::FunctionMetadata::PropertyAttributeIndex/"x.app.rimetadb.exclude">
(per-function exclude setting).

=head2 x.name.is_plural

Observed by L<Perinci::Sub::GetArgs::Argv>. If set, will create singular version
of option, e.g. C<name> from L<names>.

Example usage: L<Bencher::Backend>, L<App::grep::url>, L<App::wordlist>, etc.

See also L</"x.name.singular">.

=head2 x.name.singular

Observed by L<Perinci::Sub::GetArgs::Argv>. Supply singular version of argument
name, otherwise argument name will be converted to singular using
L<Lingua::EN::PluralToSingular>.

Example usage: L<Bencher::Backend>, L<App::grep::url>, L<App::wordlist>, etc.

See also L</"x.name.is_plural">.

=head2 x.perl.coerce_rules

L<Data::Sah::Compiler::perl> and its type handler modules, e.g.
L<Data::Sah::Compiler::perl::TH::date>.

=head2 x.perl.coerce_to

L<Data::Sah::Compiler::perl> and its type handler modules, e.g.
L<Data::Sah::Compiler::perl::TH::date>.

=head1 INDEX (DEPRECATED)

=head2 greedy

Now replaced by L</slurpy>.

=head2 x.schema.element_entity

First added in Spanel project. Deprecated since Sah schema can now be based on
other schemas.

=head2 x.schema.entity

First added in Spanel project. Deprecated since Sah schema can now be based on
other schemas.

=head1 INDEX (OLD/REMOVED)

=head2 cmdline_on_getarg

Code. Added in L<Rinci> 1.1.43, removed in 1.1.44.

=head2 x.perl.coerce_to_datetime_duration_obj

Observed by L<Perinci::Sub::CoerceArgs>, replaced by L</"x.perl.coerce_to">.

=head2 x.perl.coerce_to_datetime_obj

Observed by L<Perinci::Sub::CoerceArgs>, replaced by L</"x.perl.coerce_to">.

=head2 x.perl.coerce_to_epoch

2015-09-25.

Observed by L<Perinci::Sub::CoerceArgs>, replaced by L</"x.perl.coerce_to">.

=head2 x.perl.coerce_to_secs

2015-09-25.

Observed by L<Perinci::Sub::CoerceArgs>, replaced by L</"x.perl.coerce_to">.

=head2 x.perl.coerce_to_time_moment_obj

2015-09-25.

Observed by L<Perinci::Sub::CoerceArgs>, replaced by L</"x.perl.coerce_to">.

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Perinci-Manual>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Perinci-Manual>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Other C<Perinci::Manual::Reference::**::PropertyAttributeIndex> pages.

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTING


To contribute, you can send patches by email/via RT, or send pull requests on
GitHub.

Most of the time, you don't need to build the distribution yourself. You can
simply modify the code, then test via:

 % prove -l

If you want to build the distribution (e.g. to try to install it locally on your
system), you can install L<Dist::Zilla>,
L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>, and sometimes one or two other
Dist::Zilla plugin and/or Pod::Weaver::Plugin. Any additional steps required
beyond that are considered a bug and can be reported to me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2022, 2021 by perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Perinci-Manual>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
