=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Locale::Maketext::Utils::MarkPhrase - explicitly mark a phrase as translatable


=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Locale::Maketext::Utils::MarkPhrase;
    
    # $result = 'Hello World';
    $result = translatable('Hello World');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Let’s say you typically harvest phrases from your code by looking for calls to maketext() or lextext().

Sometimes you need to have a string in code that does not have your locale system in place so you can’t use maketext() or lextext() for that purpose. 

If you made fake ones you’d either have untranslated/uncompiled results or the consumer of the result would have to figure out if it’s good or if still needs processing.

Thats ugly and overly complex no matter how you slice it. A simple solution is to have a marker function that parsers can look for that passes the original string to the consumer for normal handling.

That small, simple solution is what this module aims to provide.

=head1 INTERFACE

=head2 translatable()

The function translatable() is exported when the module is import()ed.

Takes one argument, the string to translate.

Returns the same exact string unmodified.

This is one of the things that L<Text::Extract::MaketextCallPhrases>.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Throws no wnarings or errors of its own.

=head1 CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENT
  
Locale::Maketext::Utils::MarkPhrase requires no configuration files or environment variables.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

None.

=head1 INCOMPATIBILITIES

None reported.

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

No bugs have been reported.

Please report any bugs or feature requests to
C<bug-locale-maketext-utils-mock@rt.cpan.org>, or through the web interface at
L<http://rt.cpan.org>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Daniel Muey  C<< <http://drmuey.com/cpan_contact.pl> >>

=head1 LICENCE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2012, Daniel Muey C<< <http://drmuey.com/cpan_contact.pl> >>. All rights reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself. See L<perlartistic>.

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

BECAUSE THIS SOFTWARE IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE SOFTWARE, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE SOFTWARE "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE
ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE IS WITH
YOU. SHOULD THE SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL
NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR, OR CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE SOFTWARE AS PERMITTED BY THE ABOVE LICENCE, BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE
THE SOFTWARE (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGES.
