=head1 NAME

Mozilla::Persona::Validate::Htpasswd - validate the existence via an Apache Htpasswd file

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mozilla::Persona::Validate::Htpasswd
   is a Mozilla::Persona::Validate

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # add to the configation of $domain.json
  { ...
    "validate" : {
      "class"  : "Mozilla::Persona::Validator::Htpasswd",
      "pwfile" : "$path_to_file",
    },
    ...
  }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The validator object must ensure that the user/password combination
is valid.  In this case, an htpasswd file (as defined by Apache) is
used to authenticate the user.  This file can be shared between the
website configuration and Persona, but does not need to.

You can use apache's C<htpasswd> or C<htpasswd2> command to maintain
the file.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Mozilla::Persona::Validate::Htpasswd-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

 -Option--Default
  pwfile  <required>

=over 2

=item pwfile => FILENAME

The htpasswd file.  Probably, you want to provide an absolute path.
When the password file changes, it will automatically be reloaded.

=back

=back

=head2 Validation

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<isValid>(USER, PASSWORD)

See L<Mozilla::Persona::Validate/"Validation">

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<pwfile>()

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mozilla-Persona distribution version 0.12,
built on November 22, 2012. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  The code is based on the MulkyID code by
Matthias Benkard.

Persona is described at F<http://www.mozilla.org/persona/>

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights of the perl code and the related documentation by
2012 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

