# PODNAME: Path::Dispatcher::Cookbook
# ABSTRACT: A cookbook for Path::Dispatcher

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Path::Dispatcher::Cookbook - A cookbook for Path::Dispatcher

=head1 VERSION

version 1.08

=head1 NAME

Path::Dispatcher::Cookbook - A cookbook for Path::Dispatcher

=head1 RECIPES

=head2 How can I change the path delimiter from a space ' ' to a slash '/'?

When importing the L<Path::Dispatcher::Declarative> sugar, specify the
C<token_delimiter> option for the C<default> group.

    package My::Dispatcher;
    use Path::Dispatcher::Declarative -base, -default => {
        token_delimiter => '/',
    };

Or define a subclass of L<Path::Dispatcher::Declarative> with a
C<token_delimiter> method:

    package Web::Dispatcher::Maker;
    use base 'Path::Dispatcher::Declarative';

    use constant token_delimiter => '/';


    package My::Dispatcher;
    use Web::Dispatcher::Maker -base;

=head2 How can I do rule chaining (like in Catalyst)?

You can use a C<chain> rule approximate chaining behavior:

    package MyDispatcher;
    use Path::Dispatcher::Declarative -base;

    under show => sub {
        chain {
            print "Displaying ";
        };
        on inventory => sub {
            print "inventory:\n";
            ...
        };
        on score => sub {
            print "score:\n";
            ...
        };
    };

    package main;

    MyDispatcher->run("show inventory"); # "Displaying inventory:\n ..."

    MyDispatcher->run("show score"); # "Displaying score:\n ..."

=head2 How can I configure tab completion for shells?

First add a dispatcher rule for generating completions based on the path. Here
we name it _gencomp, so that if the user types "app _gencomp hel" it will print
out the various completions of "hel".

    on qr/^_gencomp\s*(.*)/ => sub {
        my $prefix = shift->pos(1);
        $prefix = "" if !defined($prefix);
        print "$_\n" for dispatcher->complete($prefix);
    };

Then tell your shell about how to use _gencomp. For zsh it might look
like this (replace "APP" with your binary name):

    /usr/share/zsh/site-functions/_APP:
        #compdef APP
        typeset -a APP_completions
        APP_completions=($($words[1] _gencomp $words[2,-1]))
        compadd $APP_completions

For bash it might look like this:

    /etc/bash_completion.d/APP.bash:
        function _APP_()
        {
            COMPREPLY=($($1 _gencomp ${COMP_WORDS[COMP_CWORD]}))
        }

        complete -F _APP_ APP

=head1 SUPPORT

Bugs may be submitted through L<the RT bug tracker|https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Path-Dispatcher>
(or L<bug-Path-Dispatcher@rt.cpan.org|mailto:bug-Path-Dispatcher@rt.cpan.org>).

=head1 AUTHOR

Shawn M Moore, C<< <sartak at bestpractical.com> >>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2020 by Shawn M Moore.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
