=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Any::Daemon - basic needs for a daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Any::Daemon;
  use Log::Report;

  # Prepare a daemon for the Operating System
  my $daemon = Any::Daemon->new(@os_opts);

  # Start logging to syslog (see Log::Report::Dispatcher)
  dispatcher SYSLOG => 'syslog';

  # Run managing daemon
  $daemon->run(@run_opts);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module delivers the basic needs for any daemon on UNIX systems.
There are other standard daemon implementations available on CPAN,
with as main common difference that this module is not dedicated to a
specific task. By using Log::Report, you can easily redirect error
reports to any logging mechanism you like.

The code for this module is in use for many different daemons, some
with heavy load (a few dozen requests per second)  Have a look in
the examples directory!  Also, you may like Any::Daemon::HTTP

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Any::Daemon-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

With C<new()> you provide the operating system integration %options,
where C<run()> gets the activity related parameters: the real action.

Be warned that the user, group, and workdir will not immediately be
effected: delayed until L<run()|Any::Daemon/"Action">.

 -Option  --Default
  group     undef
  pid_file  undef
  user      undef
  workdir   current working directory

=over 2

=item group => GID|GROUPNAME

Change to this group (when started as root)

=item pid_file => FILENAME

=item user => UID|USERNAME

Change to this user (when started as root)  If you want to run your
daemon as root, then explicitly specify that with this option, to
avoid a warning.

=item workdir => DIRECTORY

Change DIRECTORY so temporary files and such are not written in the
random directory where the daemon got started.

If the directory does not exist yet, it will be created with mode 0700
when the daemon object is initialized. We only move to that directory
when the daemon is run. The working directory does not get cleaned when
the daemon stops.

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<workdir>()

[0.90] assigned working directory of the daemon in the file-system.

=back

=head2 Action

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<run>(%options)

The C<run> method gets the activity related parameters.

 -Option     --Default
  background   <true>
  child_died   spawn new childs
  child_task   warn only
  kill_childs  send sigterm
  max_childs   10
  reconfigure  ignore

=over 2

=item background => BOOLEAN

Run the managing daemon in the background. During testing, it is
prefered to run the daemon in the foreground, to be able to stop
the daemon with Crtl-C and to see errors directly on the screen
in stead of only in some syslog file.

=item child_died => CODE

The C<child_died> routine handles dieing kids and the restart of new
ones.  It gets two parameters: the maximum number of childs plus the
task to perform per kid.

=item child_task => CODE

The CODE will be run for each child which is started, also when they
are started later on. If the task is not specified, only a warning is
produced. This may be useful when you start implementing the daemon:
you do not need to care about the task to perform yet.

The returned value of thise CODE is used as exit code of the child
process, where zero means 'ok'.

=item kill_childs => CODE

The CODE terminates all running children, maybe to start new ones,
maybe to terminate the whole daemon.

=item max_childs => INTEGER

The maximum (is usual) number of childs to run.

=item reconfigure => CODE

The CODE is run when a SIGHUP is received; signal 1 is used by most
daemons as trigger for reconfiguration.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Any-Daemon distribution version 0.94,
built on March 10, 2014. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/>
All modules in this suite:
L</Any::Daemon>,
L</IOMux>, and
L</IOMux::HTTP>.

Please post questions or ideas to F<perl@overmeer.net>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2011-2014 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

