=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mail::Box::Tie::ARRAY - access an existing message folder as array

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Box::Tie::ARRAY
   is a Mail::Box::Tie

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Mail::Box::Manager;
  my $mgr    = Mail::Box::Manager->new;
  my $folder = $mgr->open(folder => 'inbox');

  use Mail::Box::Tie::ARRAY;
  tie my(@inbox), 'Mail::Box::Tie::ARRAY', $folder;

  # deprecated, but works too
  use Mail::Box::Tie;
  tie my(@inbox), 'Mail::Box::Tie', $folder;

  foreach (@inbox) {print $_->short}
  print $_->print foreach @inbox;
  my $emails = @inbox;

  print $inbox[3];
  print scalar @inbox;
  push @inbox, Mail::Box::Message->new(...);
  delete $inbox[6];
  print $inbox[0]->head->get('status');

  my $folder = tied @inbox;
  untie @inbox;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Certainly when you look at a folder as a list of messages, it is logical to
access the folder through an array.

Not all operations on arrays are supported.  Actually, most functions which
would reduce the size of the array are modified instead to mark messages for
deletion.

Examples what you I<cannot> do:

  shift/unshift/pop/splice @inbox;

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in Mail::Box::Tie|Mail::Box::Tie/"DESCRIPTION">.

=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in Mail::Box::Tie|Mail::Box::Tie/"METHODS">.

=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in Mail::Box::Tie|Mail::Box::Tie/"Constructors">.

=over 4

=item tie B<@array>, 'Mail::Box::Tie::ARRAY', FOLDER

Create the tie on an existing folder.

» example: tie an array to a folder

  my $mgr   = Mail::Box::Manager->new;
  my $inbox = $mgr->new(folder => $ENV{MAIL});
  tie my(@inbox), 'Mail::Box::Tie::Array', ref $inbox, $inbox;

=item $class-E<gt>B<new>($folder, $type)

Inherited, see L<Mail::Box::Tie/"Constructors">

=back

=head2 Attributes

Extends L<"Attributes" in Mail::Box::Tie|Mail::Box::Tie/"Attributes">.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<folder>()

Inherited, see L<Mail::Box::Tie/"Attributes">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<type>()

Inherited, see L<Mail::Box::Tie/"Attributes">

=back

=head2 Tied Interface

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<DELETE>()

Flag a message to be removed.  Be warned that the message stays in
the folder, and is not removed before the folder is written.

» example: 

  delete $inbox[5];
  $inbox[5]->delete;   #same

=item $obj-E<gt>B<FETCH>($index)

Get the message which is at the indicated location in the list of
messages contained in this folder.  Deleted messages will be returned
as C<undef>.

» example: 

  print $inbox[3];     # 4th message in the folder
  print @inbox[3,0];   # 4th and first of the folder
  print $inbox[-1];    # last message

=item $obj-E<gt>B<FETCHSIZE>()

Return the total number of messages in a folder.  This is called when
the folder-array is used in scalar context, for instance.

» example: 

  if(@inbox > 10)    # contains more than 10 messages?
  my $nrmsgs = @inbox;

=item $obj-E<gt>B<PUSH>(@messages)

Add C<@messages> to the end of the folder.

» example: 

  push @inbox, $newmsg;

=item $obj-E<gt>B<STORE>($index, $message)

Random message replacement is not permitted --doing so would disturb threads
etc.  An error occurs if you try to do this. The only thing which is allowed
is to store a message at the first free index at the end of the folder (which
is also achievable with L<PUSH()|Mail::Box::Tie::ARRAY/"Tied Interface">).

» example: 

  $inbox[8]  = $add;
  $inbox[-1] = $add;
  push @inbox, $add;

=item $obj-E<gt>B<STORESIZE>($length)

Sets all messages behind from C<$length> to the end of folder to be deleted.

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head2 Folder tied as array

=head3 Limitations

This module implements C<TIEARRAY>, C<FETCH>, C<STORE>, C<FETCHSIZE>,
C<STORESIZE>, C<DELETE>, C<PUSH>, and C<DESTROY>.

This module does not implement all other methods as described in
the Tie::Array documentation, because the real array of messages
is not permitted to shrink or be mutilated.

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box version 3.012,
built on November 27, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

For contributors see file ChangeLog.

This software is copyright (c) 2001-2025 by Mark Overmeer.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

