=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mail::Box::Tie::HASH - access an existing message folder as a hash

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 tie my(%inbox), 'Mail::Box::Tie::HASH', $folder;

 foreach my $msgid (keys %inbox)
 {   print $inbox{$msgid};
     delete $inbox{$msgid};
 }

 $inbox{$msg->messageId} = $msg;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Certainly when you look at a folder as being a set of related messages
based on message-id, it is logical to access the folder through a hash.

For a tied hash, the message-id is used as the key.  The message-id is usually
unique, but when two or more instances of the same message are in the same
folder, one will be flagged for deletion and the other will be returned.

This implementation uses basic folder access routines which are related
to the message-id.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item B<TIEHASH>('Mail::Box::Tie::HASH', FOLDER)

Connects the FOLDER object to a HASH.

example: 

 my $mgr    = Mail::Box::Manager->new;
 my $folder = $mgr->open(access => 'rw');
 tie my(%inbox), 'Mail::Box::Tie::HASH', $folder;

=back

=head2 Tied Interface

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<CLEAR>()

Remove the contents of the hash.  This is not really possible, but all
the messages will be flagged for deletion.

example: 

 %inbox = ();
 %inbox = ($msg->messageId, $msg); #before adding msg

=item $obj-E<gt>B<DELETE>($message_id)

Remove the message with the specified $message_id.

example: 

 delete $inbox{$msgid};

=item $obj-E<gt>B<EXISTS>($message_id)

Check whether a message with a certain $message_id exists.

example: 

 if(exists $inbox{$msgid}) ...

=item $obj-E<gt>B<FETCH>($message_id)

Get the message with the specified id.  The returned message may be
a dummy if message thread detection is used.  Returns C<undef> when
there is no message with the specified id.

example: 

 my $msg = $inbox{$msgid};
 if($inbox{$msgid}->isDummy)  ...

=item $obj-E<gt>B<FIRSTKEY>()

See L<NEXTKEY()|Mail::Box::Tie::HASH/"Tied Interface">.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<NEXTKEY>($previous)

L<FIRSTKEY()|Mail::Box::Tie::HASH/"Tied Interface"> returns the first message-id/message pair from the folder,
and NEXTKEY returns the message-id/message pair for the next message,
in the order in which the message is stored in the folder.

Messages flagged for deletion will B<not> be returned. See the
L<Mail::Box::messages()|Mail::Box/"The messages"> method of the folder type for more information
about the folder message order.

example: 

 foreach my $msgid (keys %inbox) ...
 foreach my $msg (values %inbox) ...

 while(my ($msgid, $msg) = each %inbox) {
    $msg->print unless $msg->isDeleted;
 }

=item $obj-E<gt>B<STORE>(undef, $message)

Store a message in the folder.  The key must be C<undef>, because the
message-id of the specified message is taken.  This is shown in the
first example.  However, as you see, it is a bit complicated to specify
C<undef>, therefore the string C<"undef"> is accepted as well.

The message may be converted into something which can be stored in the
folder type which is at stake.  The added instance is returned.

example: 

 $inbox{ (undef) } = $msg;
 $inbox{undef} = $msg;

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 3.008,
built on October 04, 2019. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2019 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

