=head1 NAME

Math::Mathematica - A Simple PTY connection to Wolfram's Mathematica

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Math::Mathematica;
 my $math = Math::Mathematica->new;
 my $result = $math->evaluate('Integrate[Sin[x],{x,0,Pi}]'); # 2

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Although there are more clever mechanisms to interact with Wolfram's Mathematica (namely MathLink) they are very hard to write. L<Math::Mathematica> simply starts a PTY, runs the command line C<math> program, and manages input/output via string transport. While a MathLink client for Perl would be ideal, this module gets the job done.

This module does not contain a Mathematica interpreter. Mathematica must be installed on the computer before installing/using L<Math::Mathematica>.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

Constructor method. Takes hash or hashreference of options:

=over 

=item *

log - If set to a true value (true by default), the full log will be available via the C<log> method.

=item *

command - The command to invoke to start the Mathematica interpreter. The default is C<math>.

=item *

warn_after - Number of seconds to wait before warning when waiting for a response from the Mathematica interpreter. After this time, a warning is issued, which one might want to trap.

=item *

pty - An L<IO::Pty::Easy> object (or one which satisfies its api). If this is not specified, one will be created.

=item *

debug - If set to true (or if C<PERL_MATHEMATICA_DEBUG> environment variable is true) then some debug statements are printed to C<STDERR>.

=back

=head2 evaluate

Takes a string to pass to the Mathematica interpreter for evaluation. Returns a string of results. Prompt makers are stripped from the result.

=head2 log

If the C<log> constructor option was set, this accessor will contain the full I/O log of the PTY connection, including Mathematica prompts.

=head2 pty

Accessor method which returns the active L<IO::Pty::Easy> object. This object will be closed when the L<Math::Mathematica> object is destroyed.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<IO::Pty::Easy>

=item L<IO::Pty>

=back

=head1 SOURCE REPOSITORY

L<http://github.com/jberger/Math-Mathematica>

=head1 AUTHOR

Joel Berger, E<lt>joel.a.berger@gmail.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2012 by Joel Berger

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

Mathematica, MathLink and Wolfram are trademarks of Wolfram Research, Inc. L<http://www.wolfram.com>

