=pod

=head1 NAME

RPC::ExtDirect::API::Method - Ext.Direct Method object

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This package implements an Ext.Direct L<Method|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/Method>
object that holds Method's properties and can be subclassed to change
its behavior.

This document does not provide an overview of a Method. For that information,
see L<RPC::ExtDirect::API/"ACTIONS AND METHODS">.

=head1 METHOD OBJECT INTERFACE

L<RPC::ExtDirect::API::Method> provides several public methods:

=over 4

=item C<HOOK_TYPES>

Class/instance method. Returns the list of supported hook types. See
L<RPC::ExtDirect/HOOKS> for more information.

=item C<new>

Constructor. Returns a new L<RPC::ExtDirect::API::Method> object. Accepts
named arguments in a hash.

Parameters:

=over 8

=item C<config>

A L<RPC::ExtDirect::Config> instance to be used with this Method.

This parameter is mandatory.

=item C<action>

An L<Action|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/Action> name this Method belongs to.

This parameter is mandatory.

=item C<name>

This Method's name. Should be unique among the methods in an Action.

This parameter is mandatory.

=item C<len>

Number of parameters accepted by an
L<ordered Method|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Ordered Method">.

This parameter is mandatory for ordered Methods, and should not
be defined for Methods of other calling conventions.

=item C<params>

An arrayref with names of parameters accepted by a
L<named Method|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Named Method">.

This parameter is mandatory for named Methods, and should not
be defined for Methods of other calling conventions.

=item C<formHandler>

A boolean flag indicating that this Method is a
L<Form Handler|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Form Handler Method">.

This parameter is mandatory for Form handler Methods, and should
not be defined for Methods of other calling conventions.

=item C<pollHandler>

A boolean flag indicating that this Method is a
L<Poll Handler|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Poll Handler Method">.

This parameter is mandatory for Poll handler Methods, and should
not be defined for Methods of other calling conventions.

=item C<package>

Name of the package this Method's code belongs to.

This parameter is mandatory.

=item C<strict>

A boolean flag that enables or disables
L<lazy parameter checking|RPC::ExtDirect::API/"Lazy parameter checking">
for a named Method.

This parameter is optional and should only be used with named Methods.

=item C<before|instead|after>

A L<Hook|RPC::ExtDirect/HOOKS> definition of the specified type for
this Method. See L<RPC::ExtDirect::API::Hook/code> for the list of
supported options.

All three of these parameters are optional.

=item C<env_arg>

Use this parameter to indicate that this Method needs an
L<environment object|RPC::ExtDirect/"ENVIRONMENT OBJECTS"> passed to it.
Before RPC::ExtDirect 3.0, a Method was passed an environment object on
every invocation; this behavior caused problems in certain cases.

For ordered Methods and Poll handler Methods, C<env_arg> parameter
should be a number for the C<@_> position that the env object should be
spliced in. To receive the env object as the first argument, use C<0>;
to receive it as the last argument, use some number greater than
the number of parameters accepted by the Method (e.g. C<99>).

For named Methods and Form handler Methods, C<env_arg> parameter
should be a name of the hash key in which the environment object is
passed.

=item C<upload_arg>

Use this parameter to change the hash key name in which the
L<file upload array|RPC::ExtDirect/"FILE UPLOADS"> is passed to a
Form handler Method. Default is C<'file_uploads'>.

=item C<decode_params>

This optional parameter may contain the list of fields that should be
decoded from JSON for a formHandler Method. Does nothing for Methods
with other calling conventions.

=item C<metadata>

Use this parameter to declare that this Method supports call
L<metadata|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/Metadata>. The value of this key
should be a hashref with the following properties:

=over 8

=item C<len>

Declares that this Method accepts ordered (by position) metadata
with this number of mandatory values, with the number > 0.
The metadata values will be passed to the Method in arrayref.

This parameter is mutually exclusive with "params" below.

=item C<params>

Declares that this Method accepts named metadata values in a hashref.
The value of C<params> is also arrayref with the names of mandatory
metadata values. The declaration arrayref may be empty to indicate
that all metadata values are optional and should not be checked
for existence.

This parameter is mutually exclusive with "len" above.

=item C<strict>

Set this option to falsy value to have all metadata key-value pairs
passed to the Method. The default behavior is similar to named main
arguments, where all undeclared parameters will be discarded and only
the declared ones will be passed to the Method.

=item C<arg>

Defines the position of the metadata argument for Ordered methods,
or the name of the metadata argument for Named methods. Note that
this is about the calling convention of the main arguments, not
metadata itself!

For Named methods, C<arg> defaults to C<metadata>; for Ordered
methods there is no default and an error will be raised if C<arg>
is omitted.

=back

=item other

Any other hash key with the corresponding value will be stored in the
Method object.

=back

=item C<get_api_definition>

Instance method. Returns a hashref with the Method's definition for the
L<API declaration|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"API declaration">, or an empty
list if the Method should not be included in the remoting API published
to the client side.

If you need to affect Ext.Direct API generation, this method is the place
to do it. One example option is running a check on the user's credentials,
and deciding to include or exclude this particular Method from the API
generated for this user.

Parameters (by position):

=over 8

=item *

An L<environment object|RPC::ExtDirect/"ENVIRONMENT OBJECTS"> for this
invocation.

The stock C<get_api_definition> method does not use this environment
object; it is provided to be potentially utilized in subclasses.

=back

=item C<get_api_definition_compat>

Instance method. Returns a hashref with the Method's definition that
is backwards compatible with versions 1.x and 2.x of RPC::ExtDirect.

This method should not be used under normal circumstances.

=item C<run>

Instance method. Runs the Method's subroutine code and returns the
L<Result|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/Result> of the invocation. Accepts named
arguments in a hash.

The Method subroutine code is always called as a class method.
For L<Poll handlers|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Poll Handler Methods">, the
code is called in a list context; for Methods of other calling
conventions, the code is called in scalar context.

Parameters:

=over 8

=item C<arg>

The actual arguments that should be passed to the Method's code. This
should be an arrayref for
L<ordered Methods|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Ordered Method"> and
L<Poll handlers|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Poll Handler Method">, or a
hashref the other calling convention.

Note that the value of this parameter is the same as returned by
L</prepare_method_arguments> method.

=back

=item C<check_method_arguments>

Instance method. Accepts one positional argument, which is incoming
data that should be validated as Method's arguments. A specific
I<checker method> (see below) will be executed to run the actual
checks on this data; that method is expected to C<die> with an error,
or return C<1> if the arguments are valid.

=item C<check_ordered_arguments>

Instance method. Takes input data and checks that it's an arrayref,
and it has enough elements to satisfy the L</len> requirement of
the Method.

=item C<check_ordered_metadata>

Instance method. Takes input metadata and checks that it's an arrayref,
and it has enough values to satisfy the metadata C<len> requirement
of the Method.

Metadata will only be checked for Methods that accept it.

=item C<check_named_arguments>

Instance method. Takes input data and checks that it's a hashref,
and that keys for all mandatory L</params> exist in that hashref.
If the Method declares empty L</params>, the check will pass and
effectively all arguments will be passed on to the Method call.

=item C<check_named_metadata>

Instance method. Takes input metadata and performs the checks similar
to those made for named arguments.

Metadata will only be checked for Methods that accept it.

=item C<check_formHandler_arguments>

Instance method. Takes input data and checks that it's a hashref.
Since a Form Handler arguments are not known before invocation,
no other checks are performed.

=item C<check_pollHandler_arguments>

Instance method. Does not in fact run any checks, since Poll Handler
Methods are not supposed to be called directly and do not receive
any arguments.

=item C<prepare_method_arguments>

Instance method. Accepts named arguments in a hash, and runs a
specific I<preparer method> (see below) on these arguments,
depending on the Method's calling convention.

The return value of this method is the L<arguments|/arg> fed to
the Method's code invoked in the L</run> method.

Parameters:

=over 8

=item C<env>

An L<environment object|RPC::ExtDirect/"ENVIRONMENT OBJECTS"> that is
to be passed to the Method's code if Method has requested it.

=item C<input>

Method arguments passed from the client side. The type of the input
depends on the Method's calling convention.

=item C<upload>

Arrayref of file upload hashrefs. See L<RPC::ExtDirect/"FILE UPLOADS">
for more information.

This parameter is only defined for
L<Form handler methods|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Form Handler Method">
when uploaded files are present.

=back

=item C<prepare_ordered_arguments>

Instance method. Takes C<input> arguments for the Method and returns
an arrayref conformant to the 
L<ordered Method's|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Ordered Method"> definition.
This arrayref will optionally contain env object if requested,
and/or metadata.

=item C<prepare_ordered_metadata>

Instance method. Takes input metadata and returns an arrayref conformant
to the Method's metadata definition.

=item C<prepare_named_arguments>

Instance method. Takes C<input> arguments for the Method and returns
a hashref conformant to the 
L<named Method's|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Named Method"> definition.
This hashref will optionally contain env object if requested,
and/or metadata.

=item C<prepare_formHandler_arguments>

Instance method. Takes C<input> arguments for the Method and returns
a hashref conformant to the
L<Form Handler Method's|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Form Handler Method">
definition. This hashref will optionally contain env object if requested,
and/or metadata.

=item C<prepare_pollHandler_arguments>

Instance method. Returns an arrayref conformant to
L<Poll handler method's|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Poll Handler Method">
definition. This arrayref will optionally contain env object
if requested.

=back

=head1 ACCESSOR METHODS

For L<RPC::ExtDirect::API::Method>, the following
L<accessor methods|RPC::ExtDirect::Config/"ACCESSOR METHODS"> are
provided:

=over 4

=item C<config>

Return the L<RPC::ExtDirect::Config> instance assigned to this
Method object.

=item C<action>

Return the Action name for this Method object.

=item C<name>

Return the Method name for this Method object.

=item C<len>

Return the number of the parameters accepted by this
L<ordered Method|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Ordered Method">.

For any other calling convention, C<len> should be C<undef>.

=item C<params>

Return the names of the mandatory parameters accepted by this
L<named Method|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Named Method">.

For any other calling convention, C<params> should be C<undef>.

=item C<formHandler>

Return true if this Method is a
L<Form Handler|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Form Handler Method">.

For any other calling convention, C<formHandler> should be C<undef>.

=item C<pollHandler>

Return true if this Method is a
L<Poll Handler|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Poll Handler Method">.

For any other calling convention, C<pollHandler> should be C<undef>.

=item C<is_ordered>

Return true if this is an ordered Method.

=item C<is_named>

Return true if this is a named Method.

=item C<strict>

Return false for Named methods with
L<lazy parameter checking|RPC::ExtDirect::API/"Lazy parameter checking">.

Defaults to true.

=item C<package>

Return the name of the package this Method's code belongs to.

=item C<env_arg>

Return the name or position for the environment object parameter.

See L</new>.

=item C<upload_arg>

Return the name of the file upload parameter for a Form handler.

See L</new>.

=item C<before|instead|after>

Return the L<Hook|RPC::ExtDirect::API::Hook> object for the corresponding
hook slot assigned to this Method.

=back

=cut
