package App::ClipboardUtils::Manual::HowTo::ClipaddCookbook; # just to make podweaver happy

use strict;

# AUTHORITY
# DATE
our $DIST = 'App-ClipboardUtils'; # DIST
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Cookbook for clipadd

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

App::ClipboardUtils::Manual::HowTo::ClipaddCookbook - Cookbook for clipadd

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.014 of App::ClipboardUtils::Manual::HowTo::ClipaddCookbook (from Perl distribution App-ClipboardUtils), released on 2025-10-16.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<clipadd> lets you add items to the clipboard. It is
clipboard-manager-agnostic, supporting backends like B<xclip> and B<Klipper>. It
also has some convenient features which will be demonstrated in this document.

=head1 RECIPES

=head2 Adding ouput from command-line, one line at a time

 % clipadd -c COMMAND
 % clipadd -c COMMAND -t ; # to see the output on stdout as well

This is convenient because it lets you feed input to a command interactively and
immediately get the output as clipboard content.

For example, using with L<safer>:

 % clipadd -c safer -t
 Foo Bar, Inc.
 foo-bar-inc

I can paste company names and get a slug name to use in file manager to create
directory, etc.

=head2 Adding entries from a text file

 % clipadd --split-by '\n---\n' < FILENAME

For example, adding FAQ entries from a file with this text file:

 Question 1
 Answer 1
 ---
 Question 2
 Answer 2
 ---
 Question 3
 Answer 3

then you can setup keyboard shortcuts like C<Ctrl-Alt-Up> and C<Ctrl-Alt-Down>
in B<Klipper> to quickly access those FAQ entries to provide quick answers in
chats.

=head2 Adding text fragments from a text file as clipboard contents

 % clipadd --fragments < FILENAME

This is a variation from the previous recipe. Using fragments allows you to only
add certain entries and in custom order. Example content of text file:

 FAQS
 ====

 Question 1
 # BEGIN clipadd id=2
 Answer 1
 # END clipadd id=2

 Question 2
 # BEGIN clipadd id=1
 Answer 2
 # END clipadd id=1

 Question 3
 # BEGIN clipadd id=3
 Answer 3
 # END clipadd id=3

 Question 4
 Answer 4

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/App-ClipboardUtils>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-App-ClipboardUtils>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<clipadd> (a.k.a. L<add-clipboard-content>, a.k.a. L<ca>).

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTING


To contribute, you can send patches by email/via RT, or send pull requests on
GitHub.

Most of the time, you don't need to build the distribution yourself. You can
simply modify the code, then test via:

 % prove -l

If you want to build the distribution (e.g. to try to install it locally on your
system), you can install L<Dist::Zilla>,
L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>,
L<Pod::Weaver::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>, and sometimes one or two other
Dist::Zilla- and/or Pod::Weaver plugins. Any additional steps required beyond
that are considered a bug and can be reported to me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2025 by perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=App-ClipboardUtils>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
