=head1 NAME

OpenGuides - A complete web application for managing a collaboratively-written guide to a city or town.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The OpenGuides software provides the framework for a collaboratively-written
city guide.  It is similar to a wiki but provides somewhat more structured
data storage allowing you to annotate wiki pages with information such as
category, location, and much more.  It provides searching facilities
including "find me everything within a certain distance of this place".
Every page includes a link to a machine-readable (RDF) version of the page.

=head1 BUGS AND CAVEATS

UTF8 data are currently not handled correctly throughout.

Other bugs are documented at
L<https://github.com/OpenGuides/OpenGuides/issues>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item * The Randomness Guide to London, at L<http://london.randomness.org.uk/>, the largest OpenGuides site.

=item * The list of live OpenGuides installs at L<http://openguides.org/>.

=item * L<Wiki::Toolkit>, the Wiki toolkit which does the heavy lifting for OpenGuides.

=back

=head1 FEEDBACK

If you have a question, a bug report, or a patch, or you're interested
in joining the development team, please contact openguides-dev@lists.openguides.org
(moderated mailing list, will reach all current developers but you'll have
to wait for your post to be approved) or file a bug report at
L<https://github.com/OpenGuides/OpenGuides/issues>

=head1 AUTHOR

The OpenGuides Project (openguides-dev@lists.openguides.org)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

     Copyright (C) 2003-2013 The OpenGuides Project.  All Rights Reserved.

The OpenGuides distribution is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 CREDITS

Programming by Dominic Hargreaves, Earle Martin, Kake Pugh, and Ivor
Williams.  Testing and bug reporting by Billy Abbott, Jody Belka,
Kerry Bosworth, Simon Cozens, Cal Henderson, Steve Jolly, and Bob
Walker (among others).  Much of the Module::Build stuff copied from
the Siesta project L<http://siesta.unixbeard.net/>

