=pod

=head1 NAME

TUI::Vision - Turbo Vision inspired TUI framework for Perl

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  package MyApp;

  use Moo;
  use TUI::Objects;
  use TUI::App;
  use TUI::Menus;
  use TUI::Dialogs;
  use TUI::Views;

  extends TApplication;

  use constant {
    cmAbout => 1001,
  };

  sub initMenuBar {
    my ( $class, $r ) = @_;
    $r->{b}{y} = $r->{a}{y} + 1;
    return TMenuBar->new(
      bounds => $r,
      menu   => new_TSubMenu('~A~pp', kbAltA)
                + new_TMenuItem('~A~bout...', cmAbout, kbNoKey)
                + newLine()
                + new_TMenuItem('E~x~it', cmQuit, kbAltX)
    );
  }

  sub handleEvent {
    my ( $self, $event ) = @_;
    $self->SUPER::handleEvent($event);
    return unless $event->{what} == evCommand;
    return unless $event->{message}{command} == cmAbout;

    my $dialog = TDialog->new(
      bounds => TRect->new( ax => 20, ay => 6, bx => 60, by => 15 ),
      title  => 'About'
    );
    $dialog->insert(
      TStaticText->new(
        bounds => TRect->new( ax => 3, ay => 3, bx => 35, by => 5 ),
        text   => 'Hello from TUI::Vision'
      )
    );
    $dialog->insert(
      TButton->new(
        bounds  => TRect->new( ax => 14, ay => 7, bx => 26, by => 9 ),
        title   => '~O~K',
        command => cmOK,
        flags   => bfDefault
      )
    );

    $deskTop->execView($dialog);
    $self->destroy($dialog);
    $self->clearEvent($event);
    return;
  }

  package main;
  my $app = MyApp->new();
  $app->run();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TUI::Vision provides a Perl port of the classic Turbo Vision framework.
It is designed as a modular and portable text user interface (TUI)
framework for Perl applications, inspired by Turbo Vision 2.0.

The framework is a clean and native Perl implementation,
adapted for contemporary Perl environments while preserving the
original architectural concepts.

The goal of TUI::Vision is to provide a complete and extensible TUI
framework. All modules included in this release are under active
development. Additional functionality will be delivered incrementally
in future versions.

The following framework modules and namespace entry points are included in the 
distribution:

=over 4

=item * Core object system L<TUI::Objects>

=item * View and windowing system L<TUI::Views>

=item * Dialogs and widgets L<TUI::Dialogs>

=item * Menus and status lines L<TUI::Menus>

=item * Application framework L<TUI::App>

=item * Drivers and hardware abstraction L<TUI::Drivers>

=item * Gadgets and diagnostic tools L<TUI::Gadgets>

=item * Standard dialogs L<TUI::StdDlg>

=item * Message boxes L<TUI::MsgBox>

=item * Text rendering subsystem L<TUI::TextView>

=item * Memory utilities L<TUI::Memory>

=item * Validation utilities L<TUI::Validate>

=item * Unified OO toolkit L<TUI::toolkit>

=back

=head1 STATUS

This distribution is under active development. 

=head1 AUTHORS

=over

=item Turbo Vision Development Team

=item J. Schneider <brickpool@cpan.org> (Perl implementation and maintenance)

=back

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

Contributors are documented in the POD of the respective framework modules.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 1990-1994, 1997 by Borland International

Copyright (c) 2021-2026 the L</AUTHORS> as listed above.

This software is licensed under the MIT license (see the LICENSE file, which is 
part of the distribution).

=cut
