=head1 NAME

urpmi.cfg - urpmi option and media configuration file format

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The urpmi.cfg file is divided in multiple sections: one section to set
global options, and one section per media.

=head1 GLOBAL OPTIONS

Some global options can be activated by default. The following sample
shows how to disable signature checking and avoid transaction splits :

    {
	no-verify-rpm
	split-length: 0
    }

The following options can be written in this section :

=over

=item B<allow-force>

Same as specifying B<--allow-force> for urpmi. Disabled by default.

=item B<allow-nodeps>

Same as specifying B<--allow-nodeps> for urpmi. Disabled by default.

=item B<xml-info>

For remote media, specify when files.xml.lzma, changelog.xml.lzma and info.xml.lzma are downloaded:

=over

=item B<never>

=item B<on-demand>

(This is the default).

The specific xml info file is downloaded when urpmq/urpmf/rpmdrake ask for it.
urpmi.update will remove outdated xml info file.

nb: if urpmq/urpmf/rpmdrake is not run by root, the xml info file is downloaded into /tmp/.urpmi-<uid>/

=item B<update-only>

urpmi.update will update xml info files already required at least once by urpmq/urpmf/rpmdrake.

nb: with B<update-only>, urpmi.update will not update /tmp/.urpmi-<uid>/ xml info files

=item B<always>

all xml info files are downloaded when doing urpmi.addmedia and urpmi.update

=back

=item B<no-recommends>

Same as specifying B<--no-recommends> for urpmi. Disabled by default.

=item B<auto>

Same as specifying B<--auto> for urpmi. Disabled by default.

=item B<compress>

Deprecated (use rsync-options)

=item B<curl-options>

Additional options to pass to B<curl>'s command line when downloading files.

=item B<default-media>

A comma-separated list of media names. By default, only those media will
be taken into account (that is, when you don't specify an alternate list
of media via the B<--media> command-line option.)

=item B<disable-certificate-check>

Disables checking of certificates when connecting to a https medium. By
default the certificates are checked and the connection will fail if
the certificate is invalid. This option shouldn't be used for maximum
security.

=item B<download-all> 

Same as B<--download-all> option for urpmi: downloads all packages before
installing into the specified directory.  If you want to use the default
location, assign an empty string to it (WARNING! "yes" or "1" are NOT the
options you really want to use here!)

=item B<downloader>

Specify which download program to use: B<wget> or B<curl>.

=item B<excludedocs>

Same as specifying B<--excludedocs> for urpmi. Disabled by default.

=item B<excludepath>

Same as B<--excludepath> for urpmi. This options allows to give a comma
separated list of paths to be excluded on installation. There is no path
exclusion by default.

=item B<fuzzy>

Same as B<--fuzzy> for urpmi or urpmq. Enable or disable fuzzy
search. Disabled by default. Enabling it can be written in various ways :
C<fuzzy> or C<fuzzy: yes> or C<fuzzy: on> or C<fuzzy: 1>.

=item B<keep>

Same as B<--keep> for urpmi or urpmq.

=item B<key-ids>

This option is not available on the command line. It allows to use a comma
separated list of key ids to be globally accepted (keys still need to be
authorized by B<rpm>) for any medium unless a specific B<key-ids> option
for this medium is given. There is no default (even Mageia public key id
70771ff3 is not included by default).

=item B<ignoresize>

Don't check file systems for sufficient disk space before installation.
Same as specifying B<--ignoresize> for urpmi. Disabled by default.

=item B<limit-rate>

Same as B<--limit-rate> for all tools. This option allows to control
download speed; there is no limitation by default. The number is given in
bytes per second, unless a suffix C<K> or C<M> is added.

=item B<max-round-robin-tries>

For mirrorlist, the maximum number of mirrors to try before giving up. (since
sometimes all mirrors have the same problem and it is useless to try more).

=item B<days-between-mirrorlist-update>

After a number of days, urpmi.update will update the list of mirrors (to get
potential new mirrors).

=item B<nopubkey>

Don't import pubkeys when updating media.

=item B<norebuild>

Obsolete. Enabled by default.

=item B<pre-clean, post-clean, clean>

Control cache management for urpmi, default is only activated as
B<post-clean>.

=item B<priority-upgrade>

A comma-separated list of package names that must be installed first,
and that trigger an urpmi restart.

=item B<prohibit-remove>

A comma-separated list of package names that must never be removed (just
like B<basesystem> dependencies).

=item B<prozilla-options>

Same as B<--prozilla-options> for urpmi, urpmq or urpmi.addmedia.
Additional options to pass to B<prozilla> when downloading files.

=item B<resume>

Same as specifying B<--resume> for urpmi. Resume transfer of partially-downloaded files.

=item B<retry>

Specify how many times the downloader should retry in case of non-permanent
errors.

=item B<rsync-options>

Additional options to pass to B<rsync> when downloading files.
Note that the rsync options will also be used for ssh media.

=item B<split-length>

Same as B<--split-length> for urpmi. This option allows to control the
minimal length of splitted transactions. The default value is 8. 
Setting this value to 0 disables the splitting of
transactions.

=item B<split-level>

Same as B<--split-level> for urpmi. This option allows to control if
transactions should be splitted depending of the number of packages to
upgrade. The default value is 1.

=item B<strict-arch>

Same as B<--strict-arch> for urpmi. Boolean option, enabled by
default, meaning that packages can not be upgraded with versions for another
architecture.

=item B<verify-rpm>

Same as B<--verify-rpm> for urpmi. Enable or disable signature checking
(it's enabled by default). Disabling it can be written in various ways (as
for all the other boolean options) : C<no-verify-rpm> or C<verify-rpm: no>
or C<verify-rpm: off> or C<verify-rpm: 0>.

=item B<wget-options>

Additional options to pass to B<wget>'s command line when downloading files.

=back

=head1 MEDIUM DESCRIPTION

A medium is described as follows :

    name url {
	... list of options, one per line ...
    }

where B<name> is the medium name (space characters must be prefixed by a
backslash) and where B<url> is the medium URL.

Most other options like B<list>, B<media_info_dir>, 
B<synthesis>, B<removable>, B<virtual> are for internal use and should be
changed only by experienced users.

Options like B<update>, B<ignore> or B<key-ids> can be modified by users
to respectively mark mediums as update sources, to have them being
ignored, or to specify the allowed GPG key ids for packages from the
medium for verification (unless of course signature checking has been
disabled globally). It's also possible to override B<verify-rpm> and
B<downloader> in a medium description.

The B<noreconfigure> flag can be added to specify that the media should
not be reconfigured (by a reconfiguration file present on the mirror).

Media can be marked as B<static>: this means that they will never get
updated by urpmi.update or other means. This is useful for read-only media
such as CDs.

Please note that B<key-ids> is automatically set by urpmi.update or
urpmi.addmedia if a remote pubkey file is available on the mirror. This
file contains all the GPG armor keys that may be used.

=head1 BUGS

A C<{> should finish a line, as well as a C<}> should start it when used.
This means the construction C<{ no-verify-rpm }> on a single line is
invalid.

=head1 AUTHOR

Thierry Vignaud <tv@mageia.org> (current maintainer),
Pascal Rigaux (original author),
FranE<ccedil>ois Pons, Rafael Garcia-Suarez 

=head1 SEE ALSO

urpmi(8), urpmi.files(5).
