=head1 NAME

urpmi.files - files used by the urpmi tools

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The urpmi tools (urpmi, urpme, urpmi.addmedia, urpmi.update, etc.) use
several different files to store the state of the RPM repositories (or
media). This manual page documents them.

=head1 FILES

=over

=item I<< /var/lib/urpmi/synthesis.hdlist.<media_name>.cz >>

Contains information about all known packages.

=item I</etc/urpmi/urpmi.cfg>

Contains media descriptions. See urpmi.cfg(5).

=item I</etc/urpmi/proxy.cfg>

Contains proxy descriptions for http and ftp media. See proxy.cfg(5).

=item I</etc/urpmi/parallel.cfg>

Contains the descriptions of parallel aliases, one per line. Their general
format is B<< <alias>:<interface[(media)]>:<interface_parameter> >> where
B<< <alias> >> is a symbolic name to identify the parallel alias, B<<
<interface> >> is one of the parallel install methods (can be B<ka-run> or
B<ssh>), B<< <media> >> is a media list (as given to the B<--media>
parameter), and finally B<< <interface_parameter> >> is a specific interface
parameter list like C<-c ssh -m node1 -m node2> for B<ka-run> extension or
C<node1:node2> (list of node hostnames) for B<ssh> extension.

=item I</etc/urpmi/skip.list>

The list of packages that should not be automatically
updated when using --auto-select. It contains one package expression per line;
either a package name, or a regular expression (if enclosed in slashes
B</>) to match the name of packages against. (Actually, it's matched against
the full name of the package, which has the form B<name-version-release.arch>.)

=item I</etc/urpmi/inst.list>

The list of packages that should be installed instead of updated. It has
the same format as the skip.list.

=item I</etc/urpmi/prefer.list>

The list of packages that should be preferred (useful for choices with
B<--auto>). It contains one package expression per line; either a package
name, or a regular expression (if enclosed in slashes B</>) to match the name
of packages against.

=item I</etc/urpmi/prefer.vendor.list>

Vendor specific version of similar to prefer.list.

=item I</etc/urpmi/netrc>

This file is handled by urpmi: when adding a media from an URL containing a
password, urpmi will remove the password from the URL written into urpmi.cfg
and write it in this file.

=item I<< /var/lib/rpm/installed-through-deps.list >>

Contains the name of the packages that were selected indirectly, ie not requested by user
(eg: libxxxN). It is used to detect orphans (try C<urpme --auto-orphans> and see).

The format of the file is: one package name per line, or optionally "xxx (required by ...)"

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

urpmi.cfg(5), proxy.cfg(5).
