=head1 NAME

Alien::Packages::Roadmap - high level to do list and targetted goals

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This page provides a high level overview about the future extensions of
the Alien::Packages module and the improvements of the module itself.

=head1 EXTENSIONS

=head2 More Targets

Alien::Packages needs support for a wider range of platforms and packages,
this covers Gentoo Linux or HP-UX as well as identifying installed Perl5
modules using L<CPAN> or L<CPANPLUS>.

=head2 More Information

Where feasible, additional information like installed patches (e.g. AIX),
package vulnerabilities (pkgsrc), installation dates, package origin etc.,
can and should be provided.

=head2 Speed Improvement

When querying packages of several files, for each file the query is
separately executed. That means, invoking the package tool for querying
each file, because most query tools exit with an error code when at
least one queried file isn't managed by this package management. Speeding
up querying multiple files needs a way to "ignore" safe errors.

=head1 RESOURCES AND CONTRIBUTIONS

There're several ways how you can help to support future development: You can
hire the author to implement the features you require at most (this also
defines priorities), you can negotiate a support and maintenance contract
with the company of the author and you can provide tests and patches. Further,
you can submit documentation and links to resources to improve or add
packaging systems or grant remote access to machines with insufficient
supported packaging tools.

=head1 AUTHOR

Jens Rehsack, C<< <rehsack at cpan.org> >>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2010 Jens Rehsack.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.

=cut
