=head1 NAME

Geo::Postcodes::Ajax - A Tutorial in how to set up an Ajax service for the
Geo::Postcodes::* modules.

=head1 INTRODUCTION

This document uses the fictious country I<Utopia> (with country code 'U2'),
and the rest of this document will refer to the non-existent module
C<Geo::Postcodes::U2>.

The files described in this tutorial are available in the I<eg/> directory of
the distribution.

=head1 THE HTML FILE

Only the relevant parts of the html code in the file I<index.html> is shown
here:

 01 <script type="text/javascript" src="postcodecheck.js"></script>

Put this line somehere in the beginning of the file, so that the ajax code is
available for the code.

 02 <form name='one' onSubmit="return false;">

The form does not need a name for the ajax code to work, but it does not
hurt. The 'onSubmit'-code prevents the form from beeing submitted, as we would
like to keep the html page - and let the ajax-code do changes in-line.

 03   Address:  <input name="address" value="Something or other"><br>

This is not used by the example, but is there to make it more real.

 04   Postcode: <input id="postcode_u2"

We have dropped naming this and the following element, as there are no program to
receive the submitted form. Do give them a name-attribute if the form is meant
for submission (and use the same name as the ID).

It does not matter what id we give these elements, byt they must be unique for
the html document. (The naming structure used in this example makes it easy to
add forms for several languages in the same html document.)

 05           onBlur='get_location("location_u2", "u2", "postcode_u2");'

When the postcode field looses the focus, the location is computed
automatically by this call. The first argument is the ID of the location
field, which is showing the updated location information. The second argument
is the name of the country module, as used to build up the name of the
cgi-program that the ajax-code calls; in this case 'location_u2.cgi'. The
third argument is the ID of the postcode field, where the ajax-code gets hold
of the postcode.

 06           onFocus='clear_it("location_u2");'

The location field is cleared whenever the poscode field gets the focus, as a
visual hint that we are changing it - and the shown location would not be
correct anyway.

 07           maxlength=4 size=4><br>

Utoipian postcodes are no longer than four characters, so we prevent the user
from typing in longer strings.

 08   Location:  <span id="location_u2" style="color:red;"></span>

The style is just to make the location stand out.

 09 </form>


=head1 THE JAVASCRIPT FILE

The file I<postcodecheck.js>:

 01 function clear_it (dest)
 02 {
 03   document.getElementById(dest).innerHTML = "";
 04 }

 This function is used to clear the location field for us, when the postcode
 field gets the docus.

 05 function get_location (dest, country, code)

The 'dest' variable is the ID of the location field, where the postal location
is written (and is the destination of the call). The 'country' variable is the
name of the country class the postcode belongings to. The 'code' varaiable is
the ID of the postcode field, where the postcode is taken from.

 06 {

 07   var postcode = document.getElementById(code).value;

Get the postcode.

 08   var httpreq  = getHTTPObject();

Ajax magic. This procedure is included in this file, but ius not shown here
as it is exactly as in the ajax documentation. (See the file
I<eg/postcodecheck.js> in the distribution of the core module for the code.)

 09   var url      = "location_" + country + ".cgi?postcode=" + postcode;

Build up the url of the cgi program to call. This ensures that we can have
programs for different countries, as it would not be a good idea to mix them
all togetehr into one huge program.

 10   httpreq.open("GET", url, true);

This will execute the cgi program.

 11   httpreq.onreadystatechange = function ()
 12   {
 13     if (httpreq.readyState == 4)
 14     {
 15       document.getElementById(dest).innerHTML = httpreq.responseText;

Put the returned text from the cgi call into the location element.

 16     }
 17     return true;
 18   }
 19   httpreq.send(null);
 20 }

=head1 THE CGI FILE

The file I<location_u2.cgi>:

 01 #! /usr/bin/perl
 02 use strict;
 03 use Geo::Postcodes::U2 0.30;
 04 use HTML::Entities ();
 05 use CGI ();

 06 print CGI::header(), CGI::start_html('-');

 07 if (CGI::param())
 08 {
 09   my $postcode = CGI::param('postcode');

Check that the program was given the '?postcode=xxxx' argument.

 10   if (!Geo::Postcodes::U2::legal($postcode))
 11   {
 12     print "<em>Illegal postcode</em>";
 13   }
 14   elsif (!Geo::Postcodes::U2::valid($postcode))
 15   {
 16     print "<em>Postcode not in use</em>";
 17   }

Give an error message that is as helpful as possible.

 18   else
 19   {
 20     print HTML::Entities::encode(Geo::Postcodes::U2::location_of($postcode));
 21   }

If the postcode is valid, we return the location. The I<encode> call transforms any
8-bit (non us-ascii) characters (as the danish and norwegian 'æ', 'ø' and 'å')
to html character codes, as they would otherwise get scrambled (as we chose to
send the location string in hmtl instead of xml).

 22 }

 23 print CGI::end_html(), "\n";

=head1 USAGE

=over

=item 1

Copy the three files I<index.html>, I<location_u2.cgi> and I<postcodecheck.js>
(available in the I<eg/> directory of the distribution) to a directory on a
web server, and make sure that execution of cgi-scrips are allowed there.

=item 2

Choose a country module to use (as 'U2' is fictious),
e.g. I<Geo::Postcodes::NO>. Install this module, if not already done. Rename
the file I<location_u2.cgi> to <location_no.cgi>.

=item 3

Swap all occurences of the string 'u2' in the two files I<index.html> and
I<location_u2.cgi> with 'no'.

=item 4

Open the index file in a web browser.

=back

=head1 THINGS TO DO

There are several things that can be done to this ajax example:

=over

=item 1

Use the CPAN module I<CGI::Ajax> instead of my javascript code. This
will probably also fix the compatibility problem with Internet Explorer.

=item 2

Speed it up considerably by setting it up as a mod_perl handler.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

The tutorial I<perldoc Geo::Postcodes::Tutorial> or
I<man Geo::Postcodes::Tutorial>, and the documentation for the individual
country modules; e.g. I<perldoc Geo::Postcodes::NO> or
I<man Geo::Postcodes::NO>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2006 by Arne Sommer - perl@bbop.org

This library is free software; you can redistribute them and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
