=head1 NAME

Geo::Postcodes::Selection - How to use the selection procedure/method of the
Geo::Postcodes::* modules.

=head1 INTRODUCTION

This document uses the fictious country I<Utopia> (with country code 'U2'),
and the rest of this document will refer to the non-existent module
C<Geo::Postcodes::U2>.

=head1 SELECTION

=head2 selection procedure

 my @postcodes = Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection($field => $value);

This simple form will give a list of postcodes matching the specified field
and value. Substitute 'U2' by a valid country subclass. The fields can be 
anyone given by the C<Geo::Postcodes::U2::get_fields()> call, and the value
either a literal text or a regular expression. The resulting list of postcodes
is sorted. An empty list is also returned if one ore more of the arguments are
invalid, but this can be checked by using the I<verify_selectionlist>
procedure described later on.

It is possible to specify more than one field/value pair, but then the mode 
should be given (but it will default to 'and' otherwise). Use as many
field/value-pairs as required. The mode can be specified initially, between
the field/value pairs, or not at all.

The following examples are equivalent:

 Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection('and', $field  => $value, 
                                      $field2 => $value2);
 Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection(       $field  => $value,
                               'and', $field2 => $value2);
 Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection(       $field  => $value,
                                      $field2 => $value2);

The field/value pairs are evaluated in the specified order, and the modes
can be mixed freely:

 Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection($field1 => $value1,
                     'and',    $field2 => $value2,
                     'or',     $field3 => $value3,
                     'or not', $field3 => $value3,
                     'and not, $field4 => $value4,
                     'xor',    $field5 => $value5);

=head3 Modes

The modes (except 'all', 'none', 'not', and 'one') can be summarised by the
following truth table:

 A  B | and and nand nand nor nor  or or  xnor xnor xor xor
      |     not      not      not     not      not      not
 -----+----------------------------------------------------
 0  0 |  0   0   1    1    1   0   0   1   1    0    0   1
 0  1 |  0   0   1    1    0   1   1   0   0    1    1   0
 1  0 |  0   1   1    0    0   0   1   1   0    1    1   0
 1  1 |  1   0   0    1    0   0   1   1   1    0    0   1

Using 'not' after the mode negates the second argument, and the 'nxxx'
variants negate the result.

=over

=item all

All the postcodes. This mode is only legal as the first argument, and any additional
arguments are silently ignored.

 my @postcodes = Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection('all');

This will return I<all> the postcodes, as a sorted list. 

This is the same as I<sort get_postcodes()>. The object oriented version
(see below for syntax) will return a postcode object for each postcode,
and may be handy in some circumstances - if time and memory usage is
of no concern. Otherwise create the postcode objects only when needed,
inside a I<foreach>-loop on the procedure version - or use
L<selection_loop>.

=item and

The postcode is included in the result if it is included in B<all> the expressions.

 my @postcodes = Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection(
    $field1 => $value1, 'and', $field2 => $value2);

Return postcodes matching I<all> the field/value pairs.

The computation will work faster if the field/value pairs are given with the one with
the most matches first, and the one with the least matches last.
given first

=item and not

The postcode is included in the result if it is included in B<the first expression,
but not the second one>.

 my @postcodes = Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection(
    $field1 => $value1, 'and not', $field2 => $value2);

Return the postcodes I<not> matching any of the field/value pairs. (This is the same as
C<all - or>, on sets of postcodes.)

=item nand

The postcode is included in the result if it is included in B<none or only
one> of the expressions.

 my @postcodes = Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection(
    $field1 => $value1, 'nand', $field2 => $value2);

=item nand not

The postcode is included in the result unless it is included in B<the first
but not the second expression only>.

 my @postcodes = Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection(
    $field1 => $value1, 'nand not', $field2 => $value2);

=item nor

The postcode is included in the result if it is included in B<none of> the
expressions.

 my @postcodes = Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection(
    $field1 => $value1, 'nor', $field2 => $value2);

=item nor not

The postcode is included in the result if it is included in B<the second expression only>.

 my @postcodes = Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection(
    $field1 => $value1, 'nor not', $field2 => $value2);

=item none

This will return absolutely nothing.

This mode is only legal as the first argument, and any additional
arguments are silentliy ignored.

 my @postcodes = Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection('none');

This will return I<undef>. 

=item not

This mode can be used initially (as the first argument) to negate the first
field/value pair. It is also possible to use 'and not' or any other
'xxx not'-mode initially.

Note that 'not' is not a valid mode, and it will default to 'and' for any
additional field/value pairs if no mode is given.

The following examples are equivalent:

 Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection('not',     $field  => $value,
                               'and',     $field2 => $value2);
 Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection('not',     $field  => $value, 
                                          $field2 => $value2);
 Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection('or not',  $field  => $value,
                               'and',     $field2 => $value2);
 Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection('and not', $field  => $value,
                               'and',     $field2 => $value2);
 Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection('and not', $field  => $value,
                                          $field2 => $value2);

The following examples are equivalent:

 Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection('or not', $field  => $value,
                                         $field2 => $value2);
 Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection('not',    $field  => $value,
                               'or not', $field2 => $value2);

=item one

This mode can be used initially to limit the returned list of postcodes to just
one (or zero). The returned postcode is chosen randomly from the result list.

 Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection('one', $field => $value);

It can also be used on its own, just to get a random postcode.

 Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection('one');

=item or

The postcode is included in the result if it is included in at least B<one of> the
expressions.

 my @postcodes = Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection(
    $field1 => $value1, 'or', $field2 => $value2);

Return postcodes matching I<one or more> of the field/value pairs.

The computation will work faster if the field/value pairs are given with the one with
the least matches first, and the one with the most matches last.
given first

=item or not

The postcode is included in the result unless it is B<included in the second
expression only>.

 my @postcodes = Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection(
    $field1 => $value1, 'or not', $field2 => $value2);

It is also possible to achieved this by using 'or' and a reversed regular expression.

=item xnor

The postcode is included in the result if it is included in B<none or both> expressions.

 my @postcodes = Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection(
    $field1 => $value1, 'xnor', $field2 => $value2);

=item xnor not

The postcode is included in the result if it is included in B<only one of> the
expressions. This mode is the same as 'xor'.

 my @postcodes = Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection(
    $field1 => $value1, 'xnor not', $field2 => $value2);

=item xor (exlusive or)

The postcode is included in the result if it is included in B<only one of> the expressions.

 my @postcodes = Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection(
    $field1 => $value1, 'xor', $field2 => $value2);

=item xor not

The postcode is included in the result if it is included in B<both or none> of
the expressions.

=back

=head3 The Search Value

The search value is parsed as the regular expression C<m{^$value$}i>.
This has the following implications:

=over

=item m{...}i

The trailing i means that the search is done case insensitive. This does not work for
the special norwegian and danish characters 'Æ', 'Ø' and 'Å' (as used in the subclasses
'NO' and 'DK') unless a C<use locale> is used in the program, and the current locale
supports these characters. (This will probably not work when the code is running with
mod_perl on a web server.)

I<'As'> will match 'AS', 'As', 'aS', and 'as'.

=item m{^...$}

The first (I<^>; caret) and last (I<$>; dollar sign) character inside
the expression force a matcth to the whole expression. 

I<'AS'> will match exactly the four variations mentioned above, and
nothing else (so that 'CHAS' or 'ASIMOV' will not match).

Use L<"Wildcards"> or L<"Regular expressions"> to match several
characters at once.

=back

=head3 Wildcards

The character I<%> (the percent character) will match zero or more
arbitrary characters (and is borrowed from standard SQL).

I<'%12'> will match '1112' but not '1201'. I<'O%D'> will match all
strings starting with an 'O' and ending with a 'D'. I<'%A%'> will match all
strings with an 'A' somewhere.

(The character I<%> is changed to the regular expression '.*' (dot star)
by the module.)

=head3 Regular expressions

=over

=item .

The character . (a single dot) will match exactly one character.

I<'..11'> will match a four character string, where the first two can be anything,
followed by '11'.

=item ?

The character ? (a question mark) will match the previous character
zero or one time.

I<'%ØYA?'> will match strings ending with 'ØY' or 'ØYA'.

=item '*'

The character * (a star) will match the previous character zero or
more times. 

=item []

The expression I<'[AB]'> will match one of 'A' or'B'.

I<%'[AB]'> will match all names ending with an 'A' or 'B'.

=item ()

The expression I<'(..)'> will remember the part inside the paranthesis.
See the next item for usage.

It can also be used in combination with back references; C<\1>, C<\2>
and so on. I<(..)\1> will match postcodes starting with two caharcters,
and ending with the same ones (e.g. '1919', 7272', but not '1221').
I<(.)(.)\2\1> will match postcodes where the first and fourth digit is
the same, and the second and third digit is the same.

=item |

The expression I<'A|BBB'> will match either 'A' or 'BBB'.

Be careful with this construct, as I<'%ÅS|%SKOG'> will B<not>
match '%ÅS' or '%SKOG', but rather everything starting with 'ÅS'
or ending with 'SKOG' - caused by the C<'^...$'> that the expression
is wrapped in. Use I<'%(ÅS|SKOG)'> to get the desired result.

=back

=head3 External Procedures

It is also possible to call external procedures, and have them decide if the
postcode should be included. Specify C<'procedure', \&procedure_to_do_the_job>
instead of a field/value pair.

The procedure is passed the postcode, and must return true or false.

 sub procedure_to_do_the_job
 {
   my postcode = shift;
   return 1 if ...
   return 0;
 }

=head2 selection method

 my @postcodobjects = Geo::Postcodes::U2->selection(xxxx);

This works just as the procedure version (see above), but will return
a list of postcode objects (instead of just a list of postcodes).

=head2 When not to use Selection

Do not use I<selection> when you are after a single postcode, but use
the constructor (the I<new> call) or the I<xxx_of> procedures to access
the values of the fields directly.

  my @obj_list = Geo::Postcodes::U2->selection('postcode' -> '1178');
  my $obj      = Geo::Postcodes::U2->new('1178');

Using I<selection> causes a loop that iterates over all the postcodes, and
this is not a good idea when you have the answer already - a single postcode.

The C<valid> procedure can be used to check if the postcode actually
exist. See the tutorial.

=head1 SELECTION_LOOP

It is possible, even adviceable, to use external procedures in the argument
list to the I<selection> call itself, if the procedure is only used to select
from the postcodes. The procedure shown in this section have a I<print>
statement, and is okay - if somewhat contrived.

=head2 selection_loop procedure

The first argument is a pointer to a procedure which will be called for
each postcode returned by the I<selection> call, with the rest of the
arguments.

 sub post_check
 {
   my $postcode = shift;
   print "$postcode\n" if something($postcode) > 3.14;
 }

 Geo::Postcodes::U2::selection_loop(\&post_check, xxx, yyy);

=head2 selection_loop method

As above, but the value passed to the specified procedure is a postcode
object.

 sub post_check
 {
   my $object = shift;
   print $object->postcode() . "\n" if something($object->postcode()) > 3.14;
 }

 Geo::Postcodes::U2->selection_loop(\&post_check, xxx, yyy);

=head1 SUPPORTING PROCEDURES

=head2 verify_selectionlist

The I<selection> procedure/method will return an empty list, if there are
errors in the argument list, or if the selection did not find any matches. Use
this procedure (from the child class) to verify that the arguments are valid
for use by the I<selection> procedure/method.

 my($status, @list) = Geo::Postcodes::U2::verify_selectionlist(@arguments);

A status value of true (1) is followed by a modified version of the original
arguments. This will replace things as 'and' 'not' by 'and not', but the
I<selection> procedure/method copes with both. (The returned list may be
optimised in future versions of the module.)

A status value of false (0) is followed by a list of diagnostic messages, up to
the point where the verification failed.

External procedures are recognised, and must actually exist for the test to
accept them.

=head2 Geo::Postcodes::is_legal_selectionmode

Returns true if the mode is one of the list returned by C<get_selectionmodes>,
documented below. 

=head2 Geo::Postcodes::is_legal_initial_selectionmode

Returns true if the mode is one of the list returned by
C<get_initial_selectionmodes>, documented below.

=head2 Geo::Postcodes::get_selectionmodes

A sorted list of legal selection modes; 'and', 'and not', 'nand', 'nand not',
'nor', 'nor not', 'or', 'or not', 'xnor', 'xnor not', 'xor' and 'xor not'.

=head2 Geo::Postcodes::get_initial_selectionmodes

As L<Geo::Postcodes::get_selectionmode>, with the addition of 'all', none',
'not' and 'one'. The list is sorted.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The tutorial I<perldoc Geo::Postcodes::Tutorial> or
I<man Geo::Postcodes::Tutorial>, and the documentation for the individual
country modules; e.g. I<perldoc Geo::Postcodes::NO> or
I<man Geo::Postcodes::NO>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2006 by Arne Sommer - perl@bbop.org

This library is free software; you can redistribute them and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
