=pod

=head1 NAME

LEOCHARRE::Dir - my subs for general directory needs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use LEOCHARRE::Dir ':all';
   
   my $dir        = reqdir("./make_sure_dir_is_here");
   
   my @ls         = ls($dir);
   
   my @files      = lsf($dir);
   
   my @dirs       = lsd($dir);
   
   my @abs_dirs   = lsda($dir);
   
   my @abs_files  = lsfa($dir);
   
   my @abs_all    = lsa($dir);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Reading directories, etc. Made to be simple, clean cut.

=head1 SUBS

None are exported by default.

=head2 ls()

Argument is path to dir.
Returns list array with all files, including dirs files and symlinks, etc.

=head2 lsa()

Same as ls(), but paths are absolute.

=head2 lsf()

Argument is path to dir.
Returns list array with all files.

=head2 lsfa()

Same as lsf(), but paths are absolute.

=head2 lsd()

Argument is path to dir.
Returns list array with all dirs.

=head2 lsda()

Same as lsd(), but paths are absolute.

=head2 lsr()

Argument is path to dir.
Returns paths relative to ENV DOCUMENT ROOT.
Slash at front is included.
ENV DOCUMENT ROOT must be set or dies.
If none in list, returns undef;
If it is not within ENV DOCUMENT ROOT, returns undef.
This uses Cwd::abs_path thus it resolves symlinks, this cgi-bin may not be within
DOCUMENT ROOT, note.
Returns array list.

=head2 lsfr()

Like lsr() but returns files.

=head2 lsdr()

Like lsr() but returns dirs.

=head2 reqdir()

Argument is path to dir.
Requires that the dir exist, if not there, creates.
Returns abs path to dir requested.

=head1 BUGS

Please contact the AUTHOR.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Cwd>

=head1 AUTHOR

Leo Charre leocharre at cpan dot org

=head1 LICENSE

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself, i.e., under the terms of the "Artistic License" or the "GNU General Public License".

=head1 DISCLAIMER

This package is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

See the "GNU General Public License" for more details.

=cut

