
=head1 NAME

Sx - front-end to all the Athena and Xlib garbage for Perl GUI progamming

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Using the Sx package is pretty simple.  At the minimum, you 'use Sx;'
To actually have X windows pop open and such, you need to do the following:

=over 4

=item 1)

To get everything started, you should call OpenDisplay().
If OpenDisplay() returns a non-zero value, it's ok to go on.
OpenDisplay() creates what will eventually be your first
window.

=item 2)

After calling OpenDisplay(), you can go on to create all sorts
of widgets with the MakeXXX() calls.  You can lay them out with
calls to SetWidgetPos().

=item 3)

When you are done creating the user interface, call
ShowDisplay().  This causes the window and components you've
created to be displayed on the workstation screen.

Until you call ShowDisplay(), the user can I<NOT> see your
window, and drawing into drawing areas has I<NO> effect.

=item 3.5)

If you need to, you can call any of the color allocation
functions such as GetStandardColors(), etc.

=item 4)

Finally, once the window is displayed and you've done all the
initializations you wish, you must then call MainLoop(). After
you call MainLoop(), events get processed as they come in and
your callback functions are called as necessary.

After calling MainLoop(), the correct way for your program to
exit is to have one of your callback routines call exit() when
appropriate (like after the user clicks on a "Quit" button).

=back

That's all you need to do.  Even though that may look like a lot to
do, it's really pretty simple in practice.  For example, here is a
hello world program with libsx:

    use Sx;

    OpenDisplay(@ARGV);
    MakeLabel("Hello World!");
    ShowDisplay;
    MainLoop;

Granted it's one more line than a standard printf() type of hello
world program, but it's not all that bad.

Hello world programs are nice, but you don't tend to write very many
of them.  Real applications need to be able to do much more.  Even
these "real" programs aren't all that bad in libsx.

Here is a simple program that opens a window with a quit button and a
drawing area that you could use to draw whatever graphics you wanted:

    use Sx;

    sub quit { exit }

    sub draw_stuff {
      my($widget, $width, $height, $data) = @_;
      ClearDrawArea;
      DrawLine(0,0, $width, $height);   # just draw a diagonal line
    }

    $res = OpenDisplay("My Window",@ARGV);
    exit unless($res);

    $w[0] = MakeButton("Quit", \&quit, Nullsx);
    $w[1] = MakeDrawArea(300,300, \&draw_stuff, Nullsx);

    SetWidgetPos($w[1], PLACE_UNDER, $w[0], NO_CARE, Nullsx);

    ShowDisplay;
    GetStandardColors;

    MainLoop;   # off we go!

The code above is the basic skeleton for a Sx program, even
complicated ones.  First you open the display with OpenDisplay().
Then you build your interface by creating a bunch of widgets with the
MakeXXX() calls.  Next you layout the display by specifying the
relative positions of the widgets to each other.  Then you would get
any fonts or colors you may need, and finally you just enter the main
loop.

In Sx, your callback functions are where all the real work happens.
The program above has two callback functions, quit() and draw_stuff().
They are tied to events that happen in the interface.  When the user
clicks on the "Quit" button, your quit() function is called.  When the
drawing area gets resized or needs to be redrawn, your draw_stuff()
function gets called.

Usually the process of creating the interface would get separated into
a separate function that is easy to modify (instead of cluttering up
main).   However, the basic outline is the same as above.  The only
real difference with more complicated interfaces is that they usually
have a lot more calls to the MakeXXX() functions and they tend to make
use of the extra void pointer argument in the callback routines.

=head2 GENERAL NOTES

=item Specifying Callbacks

A callback for Sx is a code reference. As such, you can use whatever syntax 
you prefer to specify it :

MakeButton('Quit',\&MyExit,$data);		# Direct Hard reference

MakeButton('Quit','MyExit',$data);		# Direct Soft reference

$callback = \&MyExit;
MakeButton('Quit',$callback,$data);		# Hard reference in a variable

$callback = 'MyExit';
MakeButton('Quit',$callback,$data);		# Soft reference in a variable

MakeButton('Quit',sub { &MyExit }, $data);	# Anon sub

=item The $data parameter

Most widgets (all those with a callback function associated) takes a $data 
parameter. This value will be passed to the callback along with other
values depending on the widget. This parameter can be any kind of scalar
value, i.e. you can use it to pass reference to other variables or
anonymous constructs. If you don't need it, just use undef.

=item X Ressources

OpenDisplay can be called with a list of arguments. The first argument 
should be the name of the application. The remaining arguments are parsed
and any X-like commands is taken in account. OpenDisplay will return
the list of all its argument which couldn't be recognized as standard
X command-line arguments.

All non-list widgets (i.e. anything but MakeScrollList and MakeThreeList) 
can take a last, optional, name argument. You can use this in conjunction
with the application name passed to OpenDisplay to make your widget 
sensitive to ressource management through xrdb. By default, if you don't
specify a name, widgets are created with their types as name (all widgets
resulting from MakeButton calls will be called "button" and so on).


=head2 LABELS

A label widget is a widget that displays some text or bitmap but can
not be clicked on or interacted with by the user.  Generally a label
is for informational purposes, such as saying what the current file
name is.

=over 8

=item C<MakeLabel(txt)>

This function creates a label that contains the text in the
string pointed to by "txt".  The text will simply be displayed, with
no fancy borders or special highlighting.  If the text contains new
line characters, they will be interpreted properly.

If the argument txt is NULL, then no label will be set for the widget.
This is convenient if you plan to put a bitmap on this widget with the
SetWidgetBitmap() function.

This widget is useful for displaying a piece of textual information
like a filename or user name.

If this routine fails, FALSE is returned.

=back

=head2 BUTTON WIDGETS

A button widget is a button that a user can click on with the left
mouse button to indicate an action.  When a button is pressed, it is
drawn in inverse video and some action takes place.

A button is connected to your code by a callback function which is
called when the user clicks on the button widget with the left mouse
button.

=over 8

=item C<MakeButton(label, callback, data)>

This function creates a small rectangular button which the user can
click on.  The character string pointed at by "label" will be printed
inside the button.  If the string has newline characters in it, they
will be interpreted properly (i.e. you will get a multiline label).
The next two arguments are a callback function, and an arbitrary perl
value that will be passed to the function.

If you plan to attach a bitmap to this widget, you can specify Nullsx
for the label text (see the docs for SetWidgetBitmap()).

When the button is pressed, the callback will be called.  This
function will have two arguments: the widget that user clicked on
(which you can ignore if you do not need it) and the 'data', specified in
the call to MakeButton().

=item C<Make3Button(label,call1,call2,call3,data)>

This is just a convenience function to avoid some translation table munging.
This function will create a button, but you can specify a different callback
(or 'undef' if unwanted) for button 1, 2 or 3. 

=back

=head2 TOGGLES

A toggle widget is similar to a button widget except that it maintains
state.  That is, when a user clicks a toggle widget, it remains
highlighted until it is clicked again.  This is similar to an on/off
switch.

Toggle widgets can also be used to create a group of "radio buttons".
A radio button group is a set of toggle widgets in which at most one
of them can be selected at any one time (it is possible for none of
them to be selected).

=over 4

=item C<MakeToggle(txt, state, widget, func, data)>

This function makes a widget that will toggle between a highlighted
`on' state and an unhighlighted `off' state.

The first argument is the text that will be displayed inside the
widget. The `state' argument is a boolean value of the initial state
of the toggle button (TRUE == on/highlighted, FALSE == off).  The next
argument, a Widget, is NULL if this widget is a simple toggle button
by itself and not part of a radio group (described below).

If you plan to display a bitmap for the toggle button, you may specify
a NULL for the txt argument (and then call SetWidgetBitmap()).

The func argument is a standard callback function. First argument will
be the widget, the second argument the data you specified in the MakeToggle
call.

Each time the widget changes state, your callback function is called.
That is, each time the user clicks the toggle, your function is
called.

=back

=head2 Radio Groups

It is possible to connect toggle widgets together to form a group of
widgets that are mutually exclusive.  That is to say, with a radio
group, you can have a set of widgets in which at most one of them will
be highlighted at any given time.  Therefore, if you had 3 widgets, A,
B, and C, only one could be highlighted at any one time, and clicking
on another unhighlights the current one and highlights the toggle
clicked on.  This is useful for selecting one choice of several (such
as a size, which is either small, medium or large, but not two at the
same time).  Keep in mind that it is possible for none of them to be
selected.

To build a radio group, you use the Widget argument of the
MakeToggle() function.  If you specify another valid toggle widget in
the call to MakeToggle(), the new widget becomes connected to the
widget you specified.  All the widgets you connect together form a
radio group.  Any single widget can I<only> be in one radio group.

Example:

   $widg1 = MakeToggleWidget("Thing 1", 1, Nullsx, 'func1', Nullsx);
   $widg2 = MakeToggleWidget("Thing 2", 0, $widg1, 'func2', Nullsx);
   $widg3 = MakeToggleWidget("Thing 3", 0, $widg1, 'func3', Nullsx);

Notice how $widg2 and $widg3 specify $widg1 as their Widget argument.
This connects all three into a radio group in which only one can be
set at a time.  We initialize $widg1 to be initially set and the others
off.  If you specify more than one widget as `on', the results are
undefined.

The callback functions are called whenever a widget is highlighted or
unhighlighted.  The callbacks for the widget being unhighlighted happen
before the callbacks for the widget being highlighted.

=over 4

=item C<SetToggleState(widget, state)>

SetToggleState() explicitly sets the state of a widget.

The `state' argument is either TRUE (set the toggle to its highlighted
state), or FALSE (unhighlight the widget). The callback routine for
the widget is only called if there is a change in state.

=item C<GetToggleState(widget)>

This function returns the current state of the toggle widget.  The
return values are either TRUE (the widget is selected) or FALSE (the
widget is not highlighted).

=head2 SCROLL LIST

A scroll list is a scrollable list of items organized in a veritical
fashion.  The user can scroll through the list of items using the
mouse and select individual items in the list of available choices.

=item C<MakeScrollList(width, height, callback, data, list)>

This function makes a scrollable list of items from which a user can
select individual items.  The list contains strings of text.  The area
given to display the list is width and height pixels large.  If the
entire list will not fit, scrollbars appear that will let the user
easily scroll through the list.

The callback function, should expect to be called with a Widget
argument, the string of text the user clicked on, the string's index
in your table, and whatever user data you gave at widget creation
time

The list of strings passed in to MakeScrollList() must not be free()'d
or otherwise deallocated for the entire lifetime of the widget (or
until the list of strings is changed with ChangeScrollList()).

=item C<GetCurrentListItem(widget)>

This function returns the index of the currently selected item in the
specified list widget.  The index value returned is an index into the table
displayed by the list (specified when the widget was created or with
ChangeScrollList()).

If no item is selected in the list widget, this routine will return
a -1.

=item C<ChangeScrollList(widget, new_list)>

This function changes the list of strings displayed by the list
widget.  The new list of items is taken from the argument `new_list'.
After this function is called, the old list can be free()'d.  Of
course you can not free the new_list until the application is done or
you change the list again.

=item C<SetCurrentListItem(widget, index)>

This function causes the item with specified index, to be highlighted
in the list widget .  You must make sure that index is a valid index
into the currently displayed list, results are undefined otherwise.

After calling this function, the item with the this index will be
highlighted in the list widget.

=item C<Make3List(width,height,callback,data,array)>

This function will do the same job as the standard MakeList call, but
the callback function will be called on any button_down event and will
have a new fourth argument which will be the event mask (see <X11/X.h>
for values).

=head2 MENUS

Menus provide standard drop-down style menus that let the user select
from a variety of choices.  The Athena widgets do not support cascaded
menus, so a menu is only a single list of items.  A menu contains menu
items that are tied to callback functions in the application.  Menu
items must be text and can not be bitmaps.

=item C<MakeMenu(name)>

This function creates a menu button that contains the text pointed to
by the character string name.  When the button is clicked, a menu pops
up.  The menu contains items created with MakeMenuItem().

You need to save the return value of this function to be able to pass
it to MakeMenuItem() so that menu items can attached to a menu.

If this function fails, it returns NULL.

=item C<MakeMenuItem(menu, name, func, arg)>

This function adds a menu item to a menu.  The menu item contains the
text pointed to by the string name.  Whenever the user selects this
menu item, the callback function, func, is called.  The final argument
is an arbitrary value that is passed to the callback function.

The first argument must be a widget returned by MakeMenu() (results
are undefined if it is not).

If MakeMenuItem() fails for any reason, a NULL is returned.

Whenever the user selects this menu item, the callback will be called.

Setting of widget attributes with SetFgColor(), SetBgColor(), etc work
normally except that only one background color may be specified and it
takes effect for the entire menu.  You can set different fonts for
each menu item.

NOTE: You do not need to call SetWidgetPos() for menu items.
Successive menu items are placed below previous menu items.

=item C<SetMenuItemChecked(widget, state)>

This function sets the ``checked'' state of a menu item.  If a menu
item is in the checked state, a bitmap of a check mark appears to the
left of the menu item text.

The first argument, w, is a menu item widget created with
MakeMenuItem().  The second argument, state, is a boolean value of
either TRUE (1) or FALSE (0) indicating whether or not the check mark
should be drawn to the left of the menu item.  If the state argument
is TRUE, the check mark is drawn.  If the state argument is FALSE, the
check mark is removed.

=item C<GetMenuItemChecked(widget)>

This function returns a boolean result indicating whether the menu
item referred to by the specified widget, is checked or not.

If the menu item referred to by `w' is checked, a value of TRUE (1) is
returned.  If the menu item does not currently have a check mark next
to it, a value of FALSE (0) is returned.

=head2 SCROLLBARS

A scrollbar is a widget that allows a user to control some numeric
quantity interactively by using the mouse to scroll a slider, similar
to the volume slider on some radios.  The slider is called the "thumb"
or "thumb area" in X terminoligy.

=item C<MakeHorizScrollbar(length, scroll_func, data)>

=item C<MakeVertScrollbar(height,  scroll_func, data)>

These two routines create scrollbars.  Scrollbars allow the user to
interactively control some numeric quantity with the mouse.

When the user presses the left mouse button, the value represented by
the scrollbar increases.  When the press the middle mouse button, they
can interactively adjust the value.  Clicking the right mouse button
decreases the value represented by the scrollbar.

The arguments to create a scrollbar are its length or height in
pixels, a callback function to call when the scrollbar changes value
and an extra void pointer argument that is passed to the callback
function.

If these routines fail, they return NULL.

To set what values a scrollbar represents, you must use
SetScrollbar().  These two routines only make a scrollbar and do not
set it to return useful values.  You always have to call
SetScrollbar() to set what a scrollbar represents (see the
documentation for SetScrollbar() for more information).

Your callback routine is called everytime the scrollbar changes.
Since the calculations are done in floating point, the value may not
have changed enough to be interesting, but your routine is still
called.  You should take care to see that the value changed enough to
be interesting to your applications (i.e. it is wasteful for a text
editor to repaint the window when the new value is 0.003 different
than the old value).

A scrollbar callback routine should look like:

    sub scroll_func {
	my($widget, $new_val, $data) = @_;
    }

The first argument is the scrollbar widget that the user is
manipulating.  The second argument is a floating point value that
represents the new value of the scrollbar.  The third argument is the
argument that was passed to I<Make{Horiz,Vert}Scrollbar()>.

=item C<SetScrollbar(widget, where, max, size_shown)>

This function lets you set the values that a scrollbar represents.
The first argument is a scrollbar widget.  The next three arguments
are floating point numbers that specify the parameters of the
scrollbar.

Before discussing the details of the three float arguments, let us get
some terms straight.  When we refer to the `container' of a scrollbar,
we mean the entire box that makes up the scrollbar.  The `thumb' of a
scrollbar is the gray area that the user can grab to manipulate.  We
refer to the size or length of the thumb area (the amount of grey) as
the `size shown'.  The total amount represented by the scrollbar is
called `max'.

The arguments mean the following:

=over 8

=item C<where >

This floating point number specifies where in the
container the top of the thumb area should start.  If
you have a maximum value of 100 and where is 50, the
beginning of the thumb will be in the middle of the
container.

=item C<max >

The maximum value that the scroll bar can have.  You
will receive numbers in the range 0 to max (inclusive).
Obviously max should be a positive, and is a float.

=item C<size_shown >

This float value controls how big the grey area that
the user can grab is.  This represents how much of
whatever it is you are representing is visible.  For
example, a text editor which shows 24 lines of text
would set size_shown to be 24 (out of whatever max
is).  If you want the scrollbar to represent a
percentage of something, where when it is 100%, the
grey area is also 100% of the box, then you should
set the size_shown to be equal to max.  If this is
confusing, there are examples below.

=back

Now, some examples to clarify things (in the following, assume that
the argument, w, represents a scrollbar widget created with the
MakeHorizScrollbar or MakeVertScrollbar() routines).

For the first example, let's assume you want a scrollbar to let you
set a color value which can range between 0 and 255 with the initial
value at 67.  You sould set the scrollbar as follows:

   SetScrollbar($w, 67.0, 255.0, 1.0);

The first value, 67.0, is where we would like the beginning of the
thumb area to appear.  The next value, 255, is the maximum value the
scrollbar can attain.  The third value, 1, is the size of the thumb
area (the amount represented by the thumb relative to the maximum
size).  This scrollbar will now return values in the range of 0 to 255
(inclusive).  The thumb area will be small, and represents one value
of the 255 possible divisions.  The position of the thumb area in the
container represents its value.

For the next example, suppose we wish to make a scrollbar represent
some percentage of a value.  That is, the size of the thumb area
should be proportional to the value of the scrollbar relative to its
maximum (so when the value is at it maximum, the thumb area is 100% of
the scrollbar).

In this case we would like the size of the thumb area to represent the
amount of the variable (note the difference from the above example).
Let us suppose we want a scrollbar which can represent a percentage 0
to 100, with the initial value being 50.

     SetScrollbar($w, 50.0, 100.0, 100.0);

The first value, 50, is where the thumb area begins (in the middle of
the container).  The next number is 100, and represents the maximum
value of the scrollbar.  The next number, again 100, is the size
shown.  Making this value the same as the max value (in this case
100) causes the thumb area to vary according to the value the
scrollbar represents.

As a final example, let us take a text editor which is displaying a
file.  In this case, let us assume the text file is 259 lines long,
the window can display 47 lines, and the top line currently displayed
is 72.  To create the correct scrollbar, we would do the following:

     SetScrollbar($w, 72.0, 259.0, 47.0);

This creates a scrollbar which has a thumb area whose size is 47/259
of the entire container, and is positioned 72/259'ths of the way down
the container.

=head2 STRING ENTRY

A string entry widget is a widget that lets a user enter a single line
of ASCII text.  When the user presses return in the widget, a callback
is made to your application with a pointer to the new text.  Support
routines also exist to Set and Get the text in the widget.

If you want multiple lines of text, see the text edit widget
documentation.

=over 8

=item C<MakeStringEntry(txt, size, func, data)>

This function makes a string input widget.  A string input widget is a
widget that lets a user enter/edit a single line string value such as
a filename.

The first argument is any default text you would like in the string
entry widget.  You can specify "" if you don't want anything to
appear.

The next argument is the width in pixels of the string entry area.  Be
careful in specifying the width since the default font used by the
widget may not be wide enough to contain the text you want.  It is
best if you call GetWidgetFont() and then call TextWidth() on a string
of reasonable length and use the value returned by TextWidth() to be
the width of the widget.  If you're lazy, a value of 150-200 is
usually pretty good.

The next argument is a callback function that is called whenever the
user presses return in the string entry widget.  The first argument to
the callback is the widget where the user pressed return.  For the
most part you can ignore this (unless you want to change the text).
The second argument is the string of text the user entered.  The final
argument is the user data you passed in to MakeStringEntry().

=item C<SetStringEntry(widget, new_text)>

This function allows you to change the string of text displayed in a
string entry widget.

The first argument is the widget in which you would like to change the
string (this widget should be a string entry widget).  The second
argument is a pointer to the new text you would like displayed in the
string entry area.

=item C<GetStringEntry(widget)>

This function lets you retrieve the text a user entered in a string
widget.  The widget argument should be a string entry widget.

The return value of this function is the string that is the contents
of the string entry widget.

If there is a problem, the function returns NULL.

=back

=head2 TEXT EDIT

A text edit widget is an area used to display and optionally edit
multiple lines of text.  You can specify the text to be displayed as
either an in memory string or as a file name.  The text edit area
manages its scrollbars and internal affairs, you need not do anything
(in fact there are no callbacks for the text edit widget).

=over 8

=item C<MakeTextWidget(txt, is_file, editable, width, height)>

This functions lets you create a text edit widget that will display
some text and optionally let the user edit and manipulate it.  The
first argument, txt, is a string (empty string is ok). The second
argument, is_file, is a boolean value indicating if the first argument
should be interpreted as a file name or not.  The next argument,
editable, is a boolean value indicating whether or not the user is
allowed to edit the text.  The final two arguments specify the width
and height of the drawing area box.  If the area is too small to
display the text, scrollbars will appear.

The txt argument can either contain the entire string that you would
like the user to edit, or it can contain the name of a file to be
loaded into the text edit widget.  If the second argument is_file is
TRUE (1), then the first argument gets interpreted as a file name.  If
is_file is FALSE (0), then the first argument contains the actual text
to be displayed.

The argument `editable' is a boolean value indicating whether or not
to allow editing of the text in the widget.  If you just wish to
display some text (such as a help file), set the editable argument to
FALSE (0) and the user will not be allowed to modify the text.

=item C<SetTextWidgetText(widget, text, is_file)>

This argument lets you modify the text displayed in a text edit
widget.  The first argument identifies the text edit widget to change.
The second argument is a string that either contains
the actual text to display or the name of a file to read in.  If the
is_file argument is TRUE (1), then the string pointed to by the
argument, text, is interpreted as a file name.  If is_file is FALSE,
the string pointed to by text is directly displayed in the text edit
widget.

If you wish to update the displayed text again, you should call
SetTextWidgetText() again.

BUGS: The function name is way too long.

=item C<GetTextWidgetText(widget)>

This function lets you retrieve the text contained in a text edit
widget.  The only argument should be a text edit widget created
with MakeTextWidget().

The return from this function is a string that contains the current
text in the widget.  If there is an error, a NULL is returned.

BUGS: The function name is way too long.

=back

=head2 FORMS

=over 8

=item C<MakeForm(parent, where1, from1, where2, from2)>

This function lets you create a new "form" widget in which to put
child widgets.  A form widget is a container that holds other widgets.
Normally there is no need to call this function, but if you want to
have separate "groups" of widgets in your display and you can't lay
them out that way with SetWidgetPos(), then using multiple form
widgets may be the right thing.  In addition, a nifty little box gets
drawn around the form widget (and all the children) and this can be a
nice visual cue in your interface indicating what groups of widgets
belong together.  A form widget creates a box that surrounds all the
widgets contained inside of it (but the form widget itself is inactive
and can't be clicked on by the user).

If you use multiple form widgets in your display, the basic logic of
how you create the display is a little different.  You can think of
form widgets as miniature windows inside a larger window.

Once you create a form widget, any other widgets you create with calls
like MakeButton() and MakeLabel() become children of this form widget.
Before you create another form widget, you must lay out all the
children of the current form widget with calls to SetWidgetPos().
After you lay out all the children of the current widget, then you can
create another form widget, and repeat the process (or call SetForm()).

Form widgets are layed out in a manner similar to regular widgets,
except that usually their placement is relative to other form widgets.
When you create a new form widget (after the first one), you specify
where it should be placed relative to other form widgets that you
created.  The first form widget is always placed in the top left
corner of the window.

The `parent' argument to MakeForm() specifies at what level the new
form should be created.  If you specify TOP_LEVEL_FORM (which is the
usual thing to do) the new form is created at the top level of the
window.  If you pass another form widget for `parent', then this new
form widget will be a child of the other form widget.  This lets you
create hierarchical "boxes" in your display.

The arguments where1, from1, where2, from2 are the same as in
SetWidgetPos().  That is, you specify either NO_CARE, PLACE_UNDER, or
PLACE_RIGHT for where1 and where2 and the from1/from2 arguments are
the widgets you would like to place something to the right of or under
(or they are NULL if you specified NO_CARE).  See SetWidgetPos() for
more documentation.

Now for an example:

Let's say we want a display something like this:

      +------------+   +-----------------------+
      | +--------+ |   | +-------------------+ |
      | |  Btn1  | |   | |                   | |
      | +--------+ |   | |                   | |
      |            |   | |                   | |
      | +--------+ |   | |                   | |
      | |  Btn2  | |   | |                   | |
      | +--------+ |   | |                   | |
      +------------+   | |                   | |
                       | |                   | |
                       | |                   | |
                       | +-------------------+ |
                       +-----------------------+

We have two rectangles (forms) which contain other widgets.  Inside
the leftmost form are two buttons.  The form on the right has a single
drawing area.  Skipping some of the unnecessary details, we could
accomplish the above display with the following code:

  $form1 = MakeForm(TOP_LEVEL_FORM, NO_CARE, Nullsx, NO_CARE, Nullsx);
  $w[0]  = MakeButton("Btn1", Nullsx, Nullsx);
  $w[1]  = MakeButton("Btn2", Nullsx, Nullsx);

  SetWidgetPos($w[1], PLACE_UNDER, $w[0], NO_CARE, Nullsx);

  $form2 = MakeForm(TOP_LEVEL_FORM, PLACE_RIGHT, $form1, NO_CARE, Nullsx);
  $w[2]  = MakeDrawArea(200, 200, Nullsx, Nullsx);

As you can see, we create the first form and specify that we don't
care where it goes (the first form widget is always placed in the top
left corner of the window).  Then we create some widgets to place
inside of our new form.  Next, and this is important, we layout all
the widgets inside of the first form.  In this case we only need to
make one call to SetWidgetPos().  Then we create the next form, and
specify that we want to place it to the right of form1.  Finally we
create a drawing area widget, which is placed inside of form2.

If you want to create hiearchies of form widgets, you would specify
the form widget that should be the parent for the first argument to
MakeForm().  This can get quite complicted, so you should make sure
you know what you're doing if you want to create big hierarchies.

NOTE: It is important that you layout all your widgets before you
create a new form (unless you're creating a child form).

=item C<SetForm(widget)>

The SetForm() function allows you to change what is considered the
current form.  Normally you only use this function to set the current
form to be TOP_LEVEL_FORM.  You can cause your program to crash if you
are not careful about what you set as the current form.

The main purpose of this function is to let you create displays that
have both form widgets and other "normal" widgets at the same level.
Mainly you would want to do this if you wanted a large drawing area
(or some other type of widget) but didn't want to bother creating an
form widget just to hold that one widget.

After calling this function, you can position any new widgets
relative to other widgets (usually form widgets) created at the top
level of the window.

The normal calling sequence is: C<SetForm(TOP_LEVEL_FORM)>,
although you can specify any other form widget you like.  Be careful,
as it is possible to confuse the X layout routines and cause your
program to crash.

NOTE: Before you call SetForm() and start creating new widgets and
positioning them, any previous form widgets should be completely
layed out (i.e. you called SetWidgetPos() for all child widgets
of any previously created form widgets).

=back

=head2 WINDOWS

This file contains descriptions of the main high level startup and
window creation functions.

=over 8

=item C<OpenDisplay(args)>

This function initiates everything with Sx.  You should call this
function before you call any of the other functions.  A correctly
written application will call OpenDisplay(), passing its command line
arguments and count.  The return value from this function is the new
list of arguments (or zero if an error occurred).  The X libraries
accept various standard command line options such as -display or
-font, and if your application passes the command line arguments to
OpenDisplay(), these will be handled properly.  Any X options are
removed from the return array, therefore it is best if you do your
command line processing I<after> calling OpenDisplay().

You only need to call this function once to initialize the first
window your program uses.  Any other windows you need should be
created with MakeWindow().

This function returns FALSE (0) if something went wrong (like being
unable to open the display, etc). If everything went ok, it returns
the new list of arguments as its result.

=item C<ShowDisplay()>

This function displays the currently active window (user interface)
you've created with the MakeXXX() calls.  After this call completes,
the interface will be visible on the display.

Until you call this function, your interface will not be visible and
drawing into a draw area will have no effect.

Usually one calls ShowDisplay(), allocates some colors and then
immediately calls MainLoop().

=item C<MainLoop()>

After calling this function, your program yields control to the user
interface, and it is entirely driven by what the user does and the
callbacks associated with the various widgets.  For a single window
application, the general flow of events is:

    OpenDisplay(@ARGV);        # initialize the first window

    MakeXXX(....);             # create widgets

    ShowDisplay;               # put the window on the screen
                               # optionally allocate colors
    MainLoop;                  # start the main loop going

When you call this after calling ShowDisplay() for your first window
(created by OpenDisplay()), the MainLoop() function never returns and
your application should have some callback function that will exit()
the program (such as a quit button or menu option).


You should not call MainLoop() for NONEXCLUSIVE mode windows created
with MakeWindow().  Those type of windows have their callbacks handled
by the MainLoop() function that is already executing (i.e. the one you
called for your original window).

If the window is an EXCLUSIVE mode window, then MainLoop() keeps
executing until CloseWindow() is called on the EXCLUSIVE mode window.
That is, MainLoop() blocks until the EXCLUSIVE mode window is closed,
and then it returns.

If you create a non-exclusive mode window, the general order of events
is:

      MakeWindow(NONEXCLUSIVE_WINDOW, ....);
      MakeXXX(...);
      ShowDisplay;

This creates a window, puts interface objects into it, and then puts
that window on the screen.  No other actions need to be taken, and
when the callback that created this new window returns, all processing
takes place normally, including the processing of the new window and
its callbacks.

For a window of EXCLUSIVE_WINDOW mode (like a popup), the general
order execution is:

      MakeWindow(EXCLUSIVE_WINDOW, ....);
      MakeXXX(...);
      ShowDisplay;

      MainLoop;     # blocks until CloseWindow() is called

      # do something with whatever values the popup got for us

When MainLoop() returns for an EXCLUSIVE_WINDOW, the window has been
closed.

=item C<SyncDisplay(void)>

This function synchronizes the display with all drawing requests you
have made.  Normally it is not necessary to call this function, but if
you make many repeated function calls to draw graphics, they will be
updated in a chunky fashion because X buffers drawing requests and
sends a bunch of them at once.

After this function completes, all drawing requests you have made are
visible on the screen.

NOTE: Normally you do not need to call this function because X ensures
that everything you request gets drawn, but sometimes it is
necessary to insure the synchronization of the display.

=item C<MakeWindow(window_name, display_name, exclusive)>

NOTE: Do not call this function to open your first window. Your
application's first window is opened for you by OpenDisplay().
If your application only needs one window, do NOT call this
function.

This function opens a new window, possibly on a different display
(workstation).  The new window has the name specified by the argument
window_name and is opened on the display named by display_name (a
string usually in the form of, "machine_name:0.0").  The final
argument indicates whether the window should be an exclusive window or
not (described below).

After this functions returns, the current window is the one you just
created and you can begin adding widgets to it with the MakeXXX()
calls.  After have created and added any widgets you want, you should
call ShowDisplay(), and if the window is an EXCLUSIVE_MODE window,
then you should call MainLoop() (which blocks until the window is
closed).  If you opened the window with the NONEXCLUSIVE_WINDOW
option, you should NOT call MainLoop().

If you pass SAME_DISPLAY, for the display name, the
window opens on the same display as the original window opened by
OpenDisplay().

The argument, exclusive, indicates what type of window to open.  A
normal window is a NONEXCLUSIVE_WINDOW.  That is, it will not block
the user from interacting with your existing window.  An
EXCLUSIVE_WINDOW is a popup window that blocks input to your main
window until the popup is closed with CloseWindow().

The EXCLUSIVE_WINDOW mode is useful for requestors that need an answer
and the user should not be able to do other things in the application.
Of course some user-interface folks don't think modal windows like
this are good, but tough cookies for them because some times it's
necessary.

=item C<SetCurrentWindow(widget)>

This function sets the currently active window for other function
calls such as CloseWindow().  If you have multiple windows open on
several displays, you must call this function switch the currently
active one when you wish to manipulate the various windows.

The argument must be a valid value returned by MakeWindow().  If
you would like to set the current window to be the original window
opened by OpenDisplay(), you can pass the #define, ORIGINAL_WINDOW.

When you change windows, the current drawing area is also changed to
be the last current drawing area in the new window (if there is a
drawing area in the new window).

=item C<CloseWindow()>

This function closes and removes from the display, the currently
active window.

After calling this function, you should not refer to any of the
widgets contained in the window as they are invalid (as is the window
handle).

=back

=head2 PREDEFINED POP-UPS

Popup windows are simple dialog boxes that get a simple yes/no or
string answer from the user.  When these windows popup, they block
input to the previously active window.

=over 8

=item C<GetYesNo(question)>

This function allows you to prompt the user for the answer to a simple
yes or no type of question.  It simply pops up a dialog box with the
text contained in the string question, and two okay/cancel buttons.

If the user clicks Okay, this function returns TRUE.  If the user
clicks Cancel, this function returns FALSE.  The text in the question
string can have embedded newlines (\n characters) to break things up
or to add spacing.

SEE ALSO : GetString()

=item C<GetString(msg, default)>

This function allows you to prompt the user for a string of input.
The first argument, msg, is a pointer to a string which will be
displayed in the dialog box.  The next argument, default, is the
default string to place in the text string box (it can be NULL or "").

When you call this function, it pops up a small dialog box on the
screen, and the user can enter the line of text.  When the user clicks
ok or cancel, the function returns a pointer to the string of text the
user entered.

If the user clicks cancel, you get a NULL return value.

SEE ALSO : GetYesNo()

=back

=head2 DRAW AREAS

A drawing area is a rectangular area that supports drawing into,
receiving input from (mouse clicks, mouse motion and keypresses) and
redisplay requests from X.  You can draw any sort of graphics into a
drawing area as well as perform various types of interaction with
mouse and keyboard input.

=item C<MakeDrawArea(width, height, callback, data)>

The function MakeDrawArea() creates a drawing area which you can later
use to draw graphics into and receive mouse and keyboard input from.
The drawing are will have a width and height as you specify.  The
callback function is called whenever the drawing area should be
redisplayed (because it was obscured or resized).  The argument "data"
is any kind of Sxperl object you want, and it is passed directly
to the resize callback (and the other callbacks as well).

The redisplay callback is where you should put all of your drawing
code.  It is called for you when the application opens the window for
the first time (by calling MainLoop()).  The redisplay callback
function should looks like:

    sub redisplay {
	my($widget, $width, $height, $data) = @_
    }

The first argument is the drawing area widget that needs to be
redrawn.  The second and third arguments are the new width and height
of the drawing area (it may have been resized).  The final argument
is the data passed to MakeDrawArea().

If you are interested in receiving other types of input, see the
functions, SetButtonDownCB(), SetButtonUpCB(), SetKeypressCB() and
SetMouseMotionCB().  These functions will let you set callbacks for
the other types of input.

Each drawing area you create has its own state (foreground and
background colors, drawing mode, and line width).  Only one drawing
area can be active at any given time.  When an event happens for a
drawing area, that drawing area becomes the active drawing area.  You
can make other drawing areas active with SetDrawArea().

If something goes wrong in creating the DrawArea, a FALSE value is
returned.

=item C<SetButtonDownCB(w, callback)>

This function sets up a callback that will be called everytime the
user presses a mouse button in the specified drawing area widget `w'.

The callback function should looks like:

    sub  callback {
	my($widget, $which_button, $x, $y, $data) = @_;
    }

Then, whenever the user presses a mouse button in the drawing area,
your callback is called.  The first argument is the drawing area
widget where the event happened.  The next argument is an integer
specifying which button was pressed.  It is a small positive integer.
A value of one is the left mouse button, two is the middle mouse
button and three is the right mouse button.  Technically, values of
four and five are also possible though I've never seen a mouse with
five buttons.  The x and y arguments are the position of the mouse
where the user pressed the mouse button.  The final argument is the
data argument given to MakeDrawArea().

You can specify a null string for the function to turn off receiving button
down events.

=item C<SetButtonUpCB(widget, button_up)>

This function sets up a callback that will be called everytime the
user releases a mouse button in the specified drawing area widget `w'.

Same behaviour as for SetButtonDownCB().

=item C<SetKeypressCB(widget, callback)>

This function lets you set a callback so that you will receive
keyboard input in the drawing area.

The callback function should looks like:

      sub  callback {
	my($widget, $input, $up_or_down, $data) = @_;
      }

Then, whenever the user presses keys in the drawing area, your
callback function is called.  The first argument is the drawing area
widget where the event happened.  The next argument is a string that
contains what was typed by the user.  The up_or_down argument
indicates whether the key was pressed released (a zero indicates a
press, a 1 indicates a key release). The final argument is the
argument given to MakeDrawArea().

It is useful to know that the string returned to your program is
not necessarily a single ASCII character. You will get the usual
ASCII characters, including control characters (such as ^C or ^H).
But, the workstation's function keys will also be returned in a
string such as "F11" or "F23".  You will also get other longer
strings such as "Control_L", "Alt_R", or "Shift_L".  It is
important to understand that even if you just press the shift key to
get a capital letter, you will first receive the string "Shift_L"
or "Shift_R", then you will receive a capital letter (say, "H").
You should probably ignore the "Shift_L" or "Shift_R" messages (but
who knows, you may find some use for them).

The argument, up_or_down, tells you whether the given key was pressed
or released.  If the key was pressed down, up_or_down has a zero (0),
if the key was released, up_or_down contains a 1.  This is useful for
doing things like shift-clicking with the mouse or handling control-key
combinations in an editor or other program.

The arrow keys return strings such as "Left", "Up", "Right", or
"Down".  Other keys on the keyboard may return strings such as "Home",
"Prior", "Next", "Undo", "Help", etc.  Of course not all keyboards
generate all of the strings (because they aren't set up to).

You can specify a NULL for the function to turn off receiving keypress
events.

=item C<SetMouseMotionCB(widget, callback)>

This function sets a callback so that whenever the mouse moves in your
drawing area, the specified function will be called.  It is important
to keep in mind that the function you specify is called I<every> time
the mouse moves in the drawing area, even if it is just passing
through.

The callback function should looks like:

    sub  callback {
	my($widget, $x, $y, $data) = @_;
    }

The first argument is (as usual) the Widget where the mouse was moved
in.  The next two arguments are the current X and Y values of the
mouse.  The final argument is the argument passed into
MakeDrawArea().

You should be very frugal with what happens in this function so as not
to cause the application to lag behind the user too much.  Calling
functions like sleep() are definitely out of the question.

You can specify a NULL for the function to turn off receiving mouse
motion events.

=head2 DRAWING

This contains documentation about the routines that let you draw
in a drawing area.

The documentation for these functions is quite brief because they are
not all that complicated (how much can one really say about
DrawLine()).

Keep in mind that for all the drawing functions, the top-left corner
of a drawing area is considered to be 0,0.

Also, all primitives are drawn in the current foreground color (set
either by SetColor() or SetFgColor().  Text is drawn with the current
foreground color and the background color.  Line, arc, and box
primitives are drawn with the current line width (as set by
SetLineWidth()), and all primitives are drawn in the current draw mode
(set by SetDrawMode()).

=item C<SetDrawArea(widget)>

This sets the current drawing area to be that named by the Widget w.
If `w' is not a drawing area widget, nothing happens.

You need to call this function when you want to switch between
multiple drawing areas.

If you only have one drawing area you do not need to worry about this
function at all.

Any callbacks for a drawing area already have the current drawing area
set to be the one where the event happened (so it is not necessary to
call this function in a callback for a drawing area).

=item C<SetColor(color)>

This sets the foreground color to draw with in the current drawing
area (each drawing area has its own foreground color).  The argument
"color" should be a valid color obtained with one of the color
functions (such as GetNamedColor() or GetRGBColor(), etc).

To some extent this function duplicates the SetFgColor() function, but
exists because it is faster than SetFgColor().

=item C<SetLineWidth(width)>

This functions sets the width of lines drawn in the current drawing
area.  Each drawing area has its own line width.

A width of zero is valid and tells the X server to draw lines as fast
as it possibly can, possibly being a little inaccurate.  Larger
numbers of course draw wider lines.

=item C<SetDrawMode(mode)>

This function sets the drawing mode for the current drawing area.  A
drawing mode is one of:

    GXcopy, GXxor, GXinvert, GXor, GXclear,
    GXand, GXandReverse, GXnoop, GXnor, GXequiv,
    GXinvert, GXorReverse, GXcopyInverted,
    GXorInverted, GXnand, and GXset

Most of these are stupid/useless modes defined by X (so ignore them).

The primary mode is GXcopy (the default mode).  This causes all
primitives to draw in the foreground color, overwriting any pixels
already drawn.

Libsx also defines a special mode: SANE_XOR.  The SANE_XOR
mode will actually draw primitives in a true XOR mode so that you can
draw things like rubber-band boxes that the user stretches with the
mouse.  You must use SANE_XOR if you want true XOR'ed primitives,
GXxor will definitely NOT work as you expect.

When you are done using SANE_XOR, you would normally call
SetDrawMode() with an argument of GXcopy to restore normal drawing.

=item C<GetDrawAreaSize(width, height)>

This is a convience function that returns the size of the current
drawing area.  The window dimension are returned in the two variables.

=item C<ClearDisplay()>

This function completely clears the current drawing area and sets it
to the current background color (which may not be white).

Generally, when your redisplay callback is called, this is the first
thing want to do.

=item C<DrawPixel(x1, y1)>

This function draws a point in the current foreground color at the
location x1, y1 in your current drawing area.  The top left corner of
the drawing area is considered 0,0.

=item C<GetPixel(x1, y1)>

This function retrieves the pixel value at the location x1, y1 in the
current drawing area.  The top left corner of the drawing area is
considered 0,0.

The pixel value returned to you will be between 0 and 255 (inclusive).
The value you get back should be treated as an index to a colormap.
To find out what actual color is displayed at that location, you
need to look up the color in the colormap (which you should be
maintaining as there is no way to get it after you've set it).

NOTE: This function is I<NOT> very high performance. It has to call
GetImage() to do the bulk of the work.  This is unfortunate,
but unavoidable because X does not provide an easy way to read
individual pixels.

=item C<DrawLine(x1, y1, x2, y2)>

This function draws a line from x1,y1 to x2,y2 in the current
foreground color in the current drawing area.  The top left corner of
the drawing area is considered 0,0.

=item C<DrawPolyline(@points)>

This function accepts an array of points and draws them as a connected
polyline on the display.  The line is drawn in the current foreground
color in the current drawing area. The top left corner of the drawing
area is considered 0,0.

The `points' argument is a list of consecutive x, y pairs.

=item C<DrawFilledPolygon (@points)>

This function takes an array of points and draws them as a filled
polygon on the display.  The polygon is filled with the current
foreground color and is drawn in the current drawing area. The top
left corner of the drawing area is considered 0,0.

=item C<DrawBox(x, y, width, height)>

This function draws a rectangular box starting at x,y with a width and
height as specified.  If you make the call: C<DrawBox(50,50,75,75)>, you
will get a box that starts at position 50,50 and goes for 75 pixels in
the X and Y directions (i.e the other extreme of the box would be at
125,125). The box is drawn in the current foreground color in the
current drawing area. The top left corner of the drawing area is
considered 0,0.

If the width and height are negative, the box is still drawn properly.

=item C<DrawFilledBox(x, y, width, height)>

This function draws a filled rectangular box starting at x,y with a
width and height as specified.  If you make the call:
C<DrawFilledBox(50,50,75,75)>, you will get a filled box that starts at
position 50,50 and goes for 75 pixels in the X and Y directions (i.e
the other extreme of the box would be at 125,125). The box is filled
with the current foreground color in the current drawing area. The top
left corner of the drawing area is considered 0,0.

If the width and height are negative, the box is still drawn properly.

=item C<DrawText(string, x, y)>

This function prints the text string "string" starting at x,y.  The
text is drawn in the current foreground color.  The background of the
text is filled with current background color of the drawing area
widget.  The top left of the drawing area is 0,0.  The X,Y position
you specify is the bottom left corner of where the text is drawn.

=item C<DrawArc(x, y, width, height, angle1, angle2)>

This function draws an arc/ellipse from the location x,y that is
bounded by the box defined by the x,y, width and height.  That is, the
arc/ellipse will always be contained in the box defined by the x,y
position and the width and height arguments.  The X,Y arguments are
not the center of the arc/circle.

The arc begines at angle1 degrees and continues for angle2 degrees
around the circle.  The arc is drawn in the current foreground color
in the current drawing area. The top left corner of the drawing area
is considered 0,0.

If you want a circle, you would specify angle1 as 0, and angle2 as
360.

If the width and height are negative, the arc is still drawn properly.

=item C<DrawFilledArc(x, y, width, height, angle1, angle2)>

This function draws a filled arc/ellipse from the location x,y that is
bounded by the box defined by the x,y, width and height.  That is, the
arc/ellipse will always be contained in the box defined by the x,y
position and the width and height arguments.  The X,Y arguments are
not the center of the arc/circle.

The arc begines at angle1 degrees and continues for angle2 degrees
around the circle.  The arc is filled with the current foreground
color in the current drawing area. The top left corner of the drawing
area is considered 0,0.

If you want a circle, you would specify angle1 as 0, and angle2 as
360.

If the width and height are negative, the arc is still drawn properly.

=item C<DrawImage(data, x, y, width, height)>

This function draws a bitmap image that has a width and height as
specified by the arguments.  The image is drawn at location x,y in the
current drawing area.  The "data" argument should contains at least
width*height bytes of data.

Each byte of the data is interpreted as a color value to draw the
corresponding pixel with.

Normally you would use this function when you have taken over the
colormap with GetAllColors() (so that you can be guaranteed certain
colors are in a given range).  If you have not taken over the
colormap, you need to make sure that the bytes in the image data
contain valid values that you've allocated with the color allocation
functions (GetNamedColor(), GetRGBColor() or GetPrivateColor()).

The top left corner of the drawing area is considered 0,0.

=item C<GetImage(x, y, width, height, result)>

This function retrieves a bitmap image from your drawing area that
has a width and height as specified by the arguments.  The image is
taken from the starting location x,y in the current drawing area.

The 'result' variable will be filled with the 8-bit
pixel values of the current drawing area.  Note that the pixel values
are not the actual color values.  If you want the actual color values,
you'll need to know what the current colormap is (which you would know
if you've set the colormap) and then use the pixel values to index the
colormap.

The memory pointed to by data is packed with width*height bytes, with
no extra padding or filling.  That is, the first width bytes
correspond to line 0, the next width bytes correspond to line 1 of the
image, etc.

It is important to keep in mind that if you plan to save the pixel
data in an image file, you need to also keep track of the colormap so
that you can save that as well.  By themselves, the pixel values don't
correspond to any particular color.

A serious drawback of this function arises from the way X operates.
If the drawing area from which you are "getting" the image is obscured
by another window, that part of the bitmap will be empty.  The only
way around this is to make sure that your window is in front of all
the others before you call GetImage().  This is a serious limitation,
but it's the way X operates.

The top left corner of the drawing area is considered 0,0.  If you specify
a starting x,y and width,height dimensions that are larger than your
drawing area, you will get a BadMatch error and X will terminate your
program (so be careful).

=item C<ScrollDrawArea(dx, dy, x1, y1, x2, y2)>

This function scrolls the box defined by (x1,y1) (x2,y2) by the
amounts dx and dy in the X and Y directions respectively.  This means
that the box whose upper left corner is (x1,y1) and whose lower right
corner is (x2,y2) are scrolled by dx and dy pixels in X and Y.

A positive value for dx causes the drawing area to scroll its contents
to the left.  That is, whatever is at the left edge gets pushed off
and the dx columns of pixels on the right hand side are cleared to the
background color.  A negative value has the opposite effect.

A positive value for dy corresponds to scrolling upwards.  That is,
whatever is at the top of the drawing area is pushed up by dy pixels
and the bottom dy rows of pixels are cleared to the background color.
A negative value has the opposite effect.

This function is useful for scrolling the drawing area to draw new
information (such as a text editor might do to scroll text up or
down).

The new area exposed by the scroll is filled with the current
background color of the drawing area.

=head2 COLOR STUFF

This describes the routines for managing colors in your window.
For example if you want to change what the foreground color is, or
need to get specific colors.  To get specific colors you use the
functions discussed in here.  It is important to remember that you can
not call any of these functions until you have called ShowDisplay().

Colors are represented by integers.  When you get a color, you are
returned an integer that you can use in calls to SetFgColor(),
SetBgColor(), and SetColor().  You should attach no meaning to the
numbers, and just because green is 17 does not mean that 18 is a
lighter or darker shade of green.

There are three ways to manipulate colors with Sxperl.  The first way
handles most of the common cases, and is done with GetNamedColor() or
GetRGBColor().

The next method, GetPrivateColor(), allows your application to modify
the actual display color represented by a color number (something you
cannot do with the the previous methods).

The final method gives you complete control in specifying the entire
colormap.  That is, you can determine exactly what integers map to
what colors so you can obtain smooth gradients (so for example black
is color 0, and white is 255).  These routines work best on 8 bit
displays but will work on 24 bit displays.

NOTE: You can NOT call any color function until you have called
ShowDisplay().

The way colors work for drawing is like this.  There are usually 256
available colors on a workstation.  This is called an 8-bit display
because 2 to the 8'th power == 256.  These colors are stored in a
table (array) of 256 entries.  If you allocate a color, and it is in
entry 37, then to draw with the color that is stored there, you must
use 37 as an argument to the SetColor() function.  When you ask for a
color, it may be taken from anywhere in the array of 256 entries, and
there is I<NO> guarantee that if you allocate a green color that the
next color in the table will be a lighter or darker green.  Even if
you allocate many colors using GetNamedColor() or GetRGBColor(), you
have i<NO> assurances about where those colors are in the array
(chances are they won't be contiguous).  If you need to have a
contiguous set of numbers, you must use GetAllColors() and then
SetColorMap() or SetMyColorMap() to set up a custom colormap with a
known set of values.  When you get a private color, your application
can specify what values that color index should have.  This is useful
when you want to interactively modify a color.

It is important to remember that `getting a color' really means
getting an index into the color table where the actual color is
stored.

=item C<GetStandardColors()>

This function sets 6 function returning standard colors, RED, GREEN,
BLUE, YELLOW, BLACK, and WHITE.  The values returned can be used in
calls to SetColor(), SetFgColor(), SetBgColor(), etc.

Do not call RED, GREEN, BLUE, YELLOW, BLACK or WHITE before calling
GetStandardColors().  The results are undefined if you do this.

NOTE: You can only call GetStandardColors() after calling the
ShowDisplay() function.

=item C<GetNamedColor(name)>

This function allocates an entry in the color table for the color
given by the ascii string "name".  You can view the list of available
color names with the showrgb command in a shell (some nice ones are
"peachpuff", "burlywood3", "aquamarine", and "paleturquoise3").  Color
names can have spaces in them.  The return value of the function is an
integer that you can use in calls to SetColor() (or any of the other
SetXXColor() calls). If an error occurred trying to allocate the color
(very possible if you allocate a lot of colors), a -1 is returned.

=item C<GetRGBColor(red, green, blue)>

This function tries to allocate the color given by the red, green,
blue triple r,g,b.  The arguments r,g, and b should be between 0 and
255.  Overflow is not checked for.  The return value is an integer
value usable in the SetColor() calls or a -1 if an error occurred.

=item C<GetPrivateColor()>

This function allocates a private color cell for use by the
application.  A private color cell is one which you can change what
color it represents.  For example, if you would like to let the user
interactively manipulate some color, you would need to allocate a
private color cell.

The integer returned by this function is a reference to a color cell
whose values you can set with SetPrivateColor().  The intial contents
of the private color cell are undefined and you should probably call
SetPrivateColor() immediately to set it to some known value.

If an error occurs, a -1 is returned.

When you are done with a private color cell, you should free it with
FreePrivateColor().

=item C<SetPrivateColor(which, red, green, blue)>

This function sets the color cell referred to by `which' to have the
r,g,b values specified.  The r,g,b values are given in the range 0-255
(inclusive). Once this function is called, any thing drawn in the
display with the color `which' will now have the new color determined
by the r,g,b arguments.

=item C<FreePrivateColor(which)>

This function returns the color associated with the private color cell
`which' to the system.  You should have allocated the color referred
to by `which' with GetPrivateColor().

=item C<GetAllColors()>

This function is rather drastic and should be used with caution.  It
immediately grabs an entire 256 entry colormap for private use.  This
has the unfortunate effect of (temporarily) wiping out the colors in
all the other windows on the display.  However this is necessary if
you wish to get a smooth colormap to use in displaying a smooth-shaded
or continuous tone picture.  Once GetAllColors() is called, the entire
colormap is free for manipulation by your program.  The colormap
remains allocated until you call FreeAllColors(), at which time
everything goes back to normal.

If an error occurred (quite possible), this routine returns FALSE.  If
everything went ok and the colormap was successfully allocated, TRUE
is returned.

If you can avoid using this function, try to.  It is disconcerting for
the user to have the colormap get wacked out and have most of their
windows disappear (they don't really disappear of course, you just can
see them usually).  However it is sometimes necessary to do this as
there is no other way to get a smoothly continuous color map.

Usually, you will want to call SetColorMap() or SetMyColorMap() right
after this function.

NOTE: On a 24 bit machine (like the SGI Indigo Elan I tested this
with), only current drawing area gets the colormap, other
widgets and windows are not affected.

=item C<FreeAllColors()>

This function frees a private colormap that was allocated with
GetAllColors().  It has the beneficial effect of immediately restoring
the rest of the colors on the screen and in other windows to those
that existed prior to the call to GetAllColors().  This function is
useful if wish to let the user restore their original colors
temporarily (although this will happen automatically when the mouse
moves outside the window).

=item C<SetColorMap(num)>

This function creates several predefined color maps that are very
smoothly continuous.  It saves you the hassle of writing them yourself
(even though they are mostly easy).  The "num" argument you pass in
should be one of the following variable :

    GREY_SCALE_1    0
    GREY_SCALE_2    1
    RAINBOW_1       2
    RAINBOW_2       3

The colormap GREY_SCALE_2 is a complete smooth color ramp from
pure black (color 0) to pure white (color 255).  The other grey scale,
GREY_SCALE_1 is a nearly pure ramp from black (color 0) to white
(color 252), but also has a few additional colors thrown in near the
end of the colormap.  The two RAINBOW_? colormaps have different
types of smooth changing rainbows of color.  This are really only
useful for drawing pretty patterns or doing false coloring.

NOTE: You should call GetAllColors() before you call this routine.  It
is not necessary, but if you don't, and GetAllColors() fails, you will
never know about it, and your application may not work very well.

=item C<SetMyColorMap(red1, green1, blue1, ..., redN, greenN, blueN)>

Occasionally it is necessary to have absolute control over your
colormap, and this function lets you do that.  This function lets you
completely specify each and every color that will be in the colormap.
The values for redi, greeni or bluei range from 0 to 255.  You need not
specify a full list of 256 triplets, you can in fact only specify a few.


NOTE: You should call GetAllColors() before you call this routine.  It
is not necessary, but if you don't and GetAllColors() fails, you will
never know about it, and your application may not work very well.

=head2 FONTS

Fonts are different type styles that can be used in various widgets.
You load a font by name and get a handle in return. The handle you get
allows you to set the font in the various widgets and font information
calls.

=item C<GetFont(fontname)>

This function loads the font named by fontname and returns a handle to
the font or FALSE if there is an error.  The handle returned by this
function is an XFont object and should be treated as an opaque
data type.

After you've loaded a font, you can then set that font in any widget
that displays text.  You can also use the handle in calls to
TextWidget() and FontHeight().

When you are done with a font, you should free it with FreeFont().

=item C<SetWidgetFont(widget, font)>

This functions sets the font used by the widget `widget', to be the font
referred to by the argument `font'.  The argument f should have been
obtained with GetFont().

=item C<GetWidgetFont(widget)>

This function returns a handle to the font currently used by the
Widget widget.  If an error occurs or there is no default font for the
widget, a FALSE is returned.

You should NOT call FreeFont() on any value returned by this function
unless you are sure that you allocated the font with GetFont().

=item C<FreeFont(font)>

This function frees the resources associated with the font.  You
should call this function when your application is done using a
particular font.

Of course you should make sure that no widget still uses the
identified font.

=item C<FontHeight(font)>

This function returns an integer value that is the height in pixels of
the specified font.   The height is defined to be the ascent of the
characters (from the baseline to the top of a capital letter) plus the
descent of the characters (the distance from the baseline to bottom of
a descender character like `g' or `p').

=item C<TextWidth(font, txt)>

This functions returns the width in pixels used by the string pointed
to by txt in the specifiedfont.  The entire string is used to
determine the width.

=head2 MISCELLANEOUS

The following function allows you to specify how the display should be
layed out.  It lets you logically position the components you created
with the MakeXXX() functions.  You will use this function to layout the
arrangement of your buttons, labels and drawing area(s).

=item C<SetWidgetPos(widget, where1, from1, where2, from2)>

This function lets you position a Widget in your window.  The idea is
that you specify logical placement of the Widget (i.e. place it to the
right of this widget, and under that widget).  Many layouts are
possible, and you can even specify that you don't care where a
specific widget is placed.

There are three types of placement.  You can place a widget to the
right of another widget with PLACE_RIGHT.  If the argument
"where1" is PLACE_RIGHT, then the specified widget will be placed
to the right of the Widget "from1".  If "where1" is equal to
PLACE_UNDER, the widget will be placed under the widget "from1".
The same holds true for the argument "where2" and Widget "from2".
Having two arguments is necessary to be able to unambiguously specify
where you want components placed in the display.  If you don't care
about where a widget is placed, you can use NO_CARE for the
`where' argument and a Nullsx value for the `from' argument.

Generally, the first widget created need not be specified, it will
always be in the top left corner.  Other widgets can the be placed
relative to that widget.  For example, if you created 4 widgets ($w[0..4])
and wanted to arrange them in a column, you would do the
following :

     SetWidgetPos($w[1], PLACE_UNDER, $w[0], NO_CARE, Nullsx);
     SetWidgetPos($w[2], PLACE_UNDER, $w[1], NO_CARE, Nullsx);
     SetWidgetPos($w[3], PLACE_UNDER, $w[2], NO_CARE, Nullsx);

Notice how the third argument changes; we are placing the next widget
underneath the previous widget.  The zero'th widget ($w[0]) doesn't
have to be placed because it is always in the top left corner (this
can not be changed).

If you wanted to arrange things in a row, you would use PLACE_RIGHT
instead of PLACE_UNDER.

As a more complicated example, supposed you want to create two rows of
widgets, and a drawing area.  You would do the following :

     # first three across the top
     SetWidgetPos($w[1], PLACE_RIGHT, $w[0], NO_CARE, Nullsx);
     SetWidgetPos($w[2], PLACE_RIGHT, $w[1], NO_CARE, Nullsx);
     SetWidgetPos($w[3], PLACE_RIGHT, $w[2], NO_CARE, Nullsx);

     # next three underneath the top row
     SetWidgetPos($w[4], PLACE_UNDER, $w[0], NO_CARE, Nullsx);
     SetWidgetPos($w[5], PLACE_UNDER, $w[0], PLACE_RIGHT, $w[4]);
     SetWidgetPos($w[6], PLACE_UNDER, $w[0], PLACE_RIGHT, $w[5]);

     # put the drawing area under the second row
     SetWidgetPos($w[7], PLACE_UNDER, $w[4], NO_CARE, Nullsx);

It is useful to think of the window as a kind of grid in which you can
put various pieces.  Just draw a picture of what you want and then use
SetWidgetPos() to indicate to the system what is next to/underneath of
what.

Also, all imaginable layouts are not possible with SetWidgetPos().
For example, you cannot specify specific pixel offsets for a widget,
or that it be centered in the display, or right justified.  This
limitaton is for the sake of simplicity.  Generally this should not be
a problem (if it is, you are probably getting beyond the scope of what
libsx was intended to provide, i.e. you're becoming an X hacker :).

You can simulate more complicated layouts by cheating and creating
label widgets whose label is just spaces and then placing other widget
the left or underneath the label.  This works but is kind of hackish.
See also SetWidgetInt() for another way to cheat.

=item C<SetFgColor(widget, color)>

This function sets the foreground color of a widget. If the widget is
a drawing area, all future primitives are drawn with the specified
color.  If the widget is some other type of widget, it sets the
foreground color of the widget (such as its text) to be the specified
color.

The argument "color" should be an integer that was returned from the
colormap functions (GetNamedColor(), GetRGBColor(), GetPrivateColor()
or GetStandardColors()).

=item C<SetBgColor(widget, color)>

This function sets the background color of a widget.  If the specified
widget is a drawing area, the next call to ClearDisplay() will clear
the drawing area to the specified background color.

The argument "color" should be an integer that was returned from the
colormap functions (GetNamedColor(), GetRGBColor(), GetPrivateColor()
or GetStandardColors()).

=item C<SetBorderColor(widget, color)>

This argument will set the border color that is drawn around a widget.
The same effect happens for all of the different widgets -- the border
is redrawn with the new color.  This can be very useful for giving a
nice visual offset to an important or dangerous button.  Of course you
should avoid garish combinations of colors that are hard to look at.

=item C<GetFgColor(widget)>

This routine is a convience function that will return the current
foreground color of any kind of widget.  This is mainly useful for
drawing widgets to make sure that you draw things in the proper
foreground color.  This can arise as a problem if you assume that
black is going to be the default foreground color (which it normally
is).  However, the user can change this default by using the -fg
"color" option on the command line.  This is an X command line option,
and can not be overriden by your program.  A real application would
use this function to check the value and use it to draw in the user's
preferred foreground color.  Other programs can just ignore the
problem and still work ok as long as the user doesn't change the
program's colors.

This function returns the integer value of the foreground color that
you can use in later calls to SetFgColor() or SetColor(). It returns
-1 if you passed an invalid Widget to it.

=item C<GetBgColor(widget)>

This routine is a convience function that will return the current
background color of any kind of widget.  This is mainly useful for
drawing widgets to make sure that you draw things in the proper
background color.  This can be a problem if you assume that white is
going to be the default background color (which it normally is).
However, the user can change this default by using the -bg "color"
option on the command line.  This is an X command line option, and can
not be overriden by your program.  A real application would use this
function to check the value and use it to draw in the user's preferred
background color.  Other programs can just ignore the problem and
still work ok as long as the user doesn't change the program's colors.

The other problem that crops up if you ignore the background color is
that if you go to erase something by just drawing in white and white
doesn't happen to be the actual background color, your program will
look funny.

This function returns the integer value of the background color that
you can use in later calls to SetBgColor() or SetColor(). It returns
-1 if you passed an invalid Widget to it.

=item C<AddTimeOut(interval, func, data)>

If you would like to animate a display or do some periodic processing
(such as an auto-save feature for an editor), you can use time-outs.

A time-out is a callback function that gets called when the specified
amount of time has expired (or I should say more precisely, when at
I<least> that much time has passed, Unix a'int no real time system).

The argument `interval' is an unsigned long and is specified in
milliseconds. That is, a time out of 1 second would be an argument of
1000.

The callback should look like:

    sub  func {
	my($data) = @_
    }

The function is only called once, if you would like the function to be
called repeatedly (to update an animation for example), the last thing
the function should do is to call AddTimeOut() again.

The value returned by AddTimeOut() can be used with RemoveTimeOut()
to cancel that time-out.

=item C<RemoveTimeOut(id)>

Cancels a time-out callback which was previously registered with
AddTimeOut().

Argument id is an identifier returned by AddTimeOut().

=item C<SetWidgetState(widget, state); >

This function lets you enable or disable particular widgets in an
interface.  If, for example, choosing one item from a menu should
disable various other widgets, you can call this function.

The Widget argument is the widget in question.  The state argument is
a boolean, which indicates whether the widget should be active or not.
A value of TRUE indicates that the widget should accept input, and a
value of FALSE indicates that the widget should not accept input (it
becomes greyed out).

When you disable a widget, the user can no longer interact with that
widget in I<any> way (it becomes grey'ed out and just ignores all
input).

=item C<GetWidgetState(widget)>

This function returns a boolean value indicating whether or not
the specified widget is currently active.

If the widget is active and accepting input, the return is TRUE, if
the widget is inactive, the return value is FALSE.

=item C<Beep()>

This function is real complicated.  It beeps the workstation speaker.

=item C<SetWidgetBitmap(widget, data, width, height)>

This function lets you attach a bitmap to a widget instead of its
default text.  This function only works correctly on Button, Toggle
and Label widgets.  Using it on another type of widget yields
undefined results.

The widget will display the bitmap data given by the argument,
data, whose width and height are given as the last two arguments.

The bitmap data is only one bitplane deep, and is usually produced by
a somewhat brain-dead X program called `bitmap'.  The output of the
bitmap program is a file you can almost directly 'require' in your source
code.  The contents of the file is an array of characters and
two #defines that give the width and height of the bitmap.

Thus, making a widget with a bitmap is a three step process.  First you
would edit a bitmap using the `bitmap' program, then you need to
edit the resulting file to convert it to perl syntax then you would do the
following:

          require  'bmap.ph';

	  $w = MakeButton(Nullsx, 'func', $a_value);
	  SetWidgetBitmap($w, $bmap_bits,$bmap_width,$bmap_height);

Bits which are a one in the bitmap are drawn in the widget's current
foreground color and zero bits are drawn in the current background
color.

=head2 ADDITION TO THE ORIGINAL LIBSX

All the following functions and widgets were added to libsx.

=item C<DestroyWidget(widget)>

This function calls destroys a given widget and all it's
descendant. Care should be taken not to re-use the widget after that.

=item C<SetWidgetInt(widget, resource, value)>

Sets the named resource with an integer value for a given widget.

=item C<SetWidgetDat(widget, resource, value)>

Sets the named resource with a 'string' value for a given widget.

=item C<GetWidgetInt(widget, resource)>

Get the integer value of the named resource.

=item C<GetWidgetDat(widget, resource)>

Get the string value of the named resource.

The following functions are intended for Text widgets.

=item C<AppendText(widget, text)>

Append the given text to the end of widget. widget should be a 'text
entry' widget.

=item C<InsertText(widget, text)>

Insert the given text in a 'text entry' widget at the current caret
position.

=item C<ReplaceText(widget, text, left, right)>

Replace the text in the widget between position left and right by the
given text.

=item C<GetSelection(widget,buf)>

Returns (in buf) the selected string from the given text widget.

=item C<GetTextSelectionPos(widget,left,right)>

Returns (in left and right) the start and the end of the selected area.

=item C<SetTextSelection(widget,left,right)>

Set the start (left) and the end (right) of the selected area.

=item C<UnsetTextSelection(widget,left,right)>

Unset the selection.

Misceallaneous functions.

=item C<WarpPointer(widget,x,y)>
Moves the pointer to the (x,y) coordinates relative to the given widget.

=item C<AddReadCallback(fd, func, data)>
Adds an input callback which gets called if some data are
readable for a given filedescriptor fd.

=item C<AddWriteCallback(fd, func, data)>
Like AddReadCallback() but checks for data writeable.

=item C<RemoveReadWriteCallback(id)>
Cancels an AddReadCallback() or AddWriteCallback() request; id is the
value as returned by AddReadCallback() or AddWriteCallback().

=item C<AddTranslation(widget, translation_table)>

Add (override) a translation table for the specified widget. Each
translation should associate an event to a perl action. This action
will take, the widget as its first argument, then the event as packed
datas followed by the rest of the specified arguments. Be warned that
the arguments will be passed as strings. So if you want to pass perl
variables, you should quote them and use eval in the callback.

For example :

    sub pargs {
      my($w,$ev,@a) = @_;
      print "args are [@_]\n";
      SetLabel($w,join('-',@a));
    }

    sub quit { exit }

    @ARGV = OpenDisplay('test',@ARGV);

    $w1 = MakeButton('quit',\&quit,undef);

    AddTranslation($w1,
		       '<Btn1Up>' => 'pargs(button1,up)', 
		       '<Btn1Down>' => 'pargs(button1,down)',
		       '<Btn2Up>' => 'pargs(button2,up)',
		       '<Btn2Down>' => 'pargs(button2,down)',
		       '<Btn3Up>' => 'pargs(button3,up)',
		       '<Btn3Down>' => 'pargs(button3,down)',
		       '<Motion>' => 'pargs(motion)');

    ShowDisplay;

    MainLoop;

=head1 AUTHOR

Original by Dominic Giampaolo <F<dbg@sgi.com>>.

Rewritten for Sx by Frederic Chauveau <F<fmc@pasteur.fr>>.

