=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Noise::CipherState - Symmetric encryption layer for the Noise Protocol

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Noise::CipherState;

    my $state = Noise::CipherState->new( cipher => 'ChaChaPoly' );
    $state->set_key($key);

    my $ciphertext = $state->encrypt_with_ad( $ad, $plaintext );
    my $original   = $state->decrypt_with_ad( $ad, $ciphertext );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Noise::CipherState manages a symmetric key and a nonce. it provides authenticated encryption and decryption,
automatically incrementing the nonce after each operation.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<new( %params )>

Constructor.

Expected parameter:

=over

=item C<cipher>: Either 'ChaChaPoly' (default) or 'AESGCM'.

=back

=head2 C<set_key( $key )>

Sets the 32-byte symmetric key and resets the nonce to 0.

=head2 C<set_nonce( $nonce )>

Manually sets the 64bit integer nonce.

=head2 C<encrypt_with_ad( $ad, $plaintext )>

Encrypts C<$plaintext> with associated data C<$ad>. The nonce is incremented after encryption. Returns ciphertext +
16-byte MAC tag.

=head2 C<decrypt_with_ad($ad, $ciphertext)>

Decrypts C<$ciphertext> (including tag) with associated data C<$ad>. The nonce is incremented after decryption. Dies on
MAC mismatch.

=head2 C<rekey( )>

Updates the internal key C<k> using the C<Rekey> function defined in Section 11.3 of the Noise specification.

=head2 C<k( )>

Returns the 32 byte symmetric key currently stored in the CipherState. This key is used for all encryption and
decryption operations. If no key is set (like at the beginning of a handshake), this returns C<undef>.

=head2 C<n( )>

Returns the current 64bit integer nonce. The nonce is a counter that ensures the same key is never used with the same
initialization vector twice. In Noise, the nonce is incremented after every successful encryption or decryption and is
reset to 0 whenever a new key is set via C<set_key( )>.

=head2 C<has_key( )>

Returns a boolean indicating whether a symmetric key is currently initialized. Encryption and decryption methods will
pass through data unchanged if C<has_key( )> is false.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Noise::SymmetricState>

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
