=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Noise::HandshakeState - Pattern-based handshake execution

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Noise::HandshakeState;

    my $state = Noise::HandshakeState->new(
        initiator => 1,
        pattern   => 'XX',
        s         => $local_static_key
    );

    # Msg 1
    my $msg1 = $state->write_message( 'Hello' );

    # Msg 2
    my $payload = $state->read_message( $incoming );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Noise::HandshakeState implements the high-level handshake logic of the Noise Protocol. It parses pattern names,
processes pre-messages, and executes the sequence of tokens (e, s, ee, es, etc.) required to establish a secure
channel.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<new( %params )>

Constructor.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<initiator>: Boolean, true if this node starts the handshake.

=item C<pattern>: String name (e.g., 'XX', 'IK', 'Noise_NN_25519_AESGCM_SHA512').

=item C<s/e>: Local static/ephemeral L<Crypt::PK::X25519> keys.

=item C<rs/re>: Remote static/ephemeral public keys.

=item C<psks>: Array reference of 32-byte pre-shared keys.

=item C<prologue>: Optional initial data.

=back

=head2 C<write_message( $payload )>

Processes the next message in the pattern sequence and returns the raw bytes to be sent to the remote peer.

=head2 C<read_message( $bytes )>

Parses an incoming message, updates the internal state, and returns the decrypted payload.

=head2 C<split( )>

Finalizes the handshake and returns a pair of L<Noise::CipherState> objects for transport.

=head2 C<symmetric_state( )>

Returns the underlying L<Noise::SymmetricState> object. This is useful for advanced use cases where manual mixing of
additional data into the handshake transcript is required.

=head2 C<rs( )>

Returns the remote static public key (as a L<Crypt::PK::X25519> object) discovered during the handshake. If the pattern
does not involve static key exchange, or the key has not been received yet, this returns C<undef>.

=head2 C<re( )>

Returns the remote ephemeral public key (as a L<Crypt::PK::X25519> object) received from the peer. This is typically
available after the first message from the remote party.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Noise::Pattern>, L<Noise::SymmetricState>

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
