=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Noise::Stream - Encrypted transport stream using the Noise Protocol

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Noise::Stream;

    my $secure_stream = Noise::Stream->new(
        socket => $socket,
        c_send => $cipher_state_1,
        c_recv => $cipher_state_2
    );

    # Write an encrypted frame
    $secure_stream->write_bin( 'Secret data' );

    # Rekey for long-lived streams
    $secure_stream->rekey_send( );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Noise::Stream provides a wrapper around a raw socket or filehandle that handles the framing and encryption/decryption
of data following a successful Noise handshake.

It uses a 2-byte big-endian length prefix for frames and increments nonces automatically via the underlying
L<Noise::CipherState> objects.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new(%params)

Constructor.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<socket>: The underlying raw handle.

=item C<c_send>: A L<Noise::CipherState> object for encryption.

=item C<c_recv>: A L<Noise::CipherState> object for decryption.

=item C<initial_buffer>: (Optional) Bytes already read from the handle.

=back

=head2 C<write_bin( $data )>

Encrypts C<$data> and writes a Noise-framed message to the socket.

=head2 C<read_bin( $length )>

Reads and decrypts data from the socket. If C<$length> is provided, it returns exactly that many bytes (waiting if
necessary). Otherwise, it returns all currently available decrypted data.

=head2 C<rekey_send(  )>

Rotates the encryption key used for outgoing messages. This calls the C<rekey()> method on the internal C<c_send>
L<Noise::CipherState> object. Rekeying is recommended for long-lived streams to limit the amount of data encrypted with
a single key.

=head2  C<rekey_recv( )>

Rotates the decryption key used for incoming messages. This calls the C<rekey()> method on the internal C<c_recv>
L<Noise::CipherState> object. This must be called in synchronization with the remote peer's C<rekey_send()> to maintain
successful communication.

=head2 C<close( )>

Closes the underlying socket.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Noise>

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
