=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

assign - Destructuring Assignment Syntax in Perl

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This code:

    use assign -0;

    my {$foo, bar => [ $first, @rest, $last ]} = $self->data;

works the same as this code:

    my $_temp1 = $self->data;
    my $foo = $_temp1->{foo};
    my $_temp2 = $_temp1->{bar};
    my $first = shift @$temp2;
    my $last = pop @$temp2;
    my @rest = @$temp2;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module enables a destructuring assignment syntax for Perl.

Instead of assigning a value to a variable, you can now assign to a data structure (array-ref or hash-ref) that specifies how to unpack a data structure into all the variables you need.

When you use this module you can put array-refs or hash-refs in places where you would put a variable that will be assigned to. The contents of these refs act as instructions for what variables to create and which parts of the target to take the assignment values from.

There are many useful combinations, which are documented below. The destructuring refs can be nested, allowing you to extract all the values you want from a complex data structure in a single statement.

=head1 STATUS

This module is very new and experimental. The hope is that this may one day become a pragma module or possibly even part of the Perl language's syntax.

To preserve backwards compatability for early adopters, the module currently requires you to C<use assign -0;>. When the module becomes stable and vetted, it will become simply C<use assign;>.

=head1 DESTRUCTURING FORMS

The best way to explain this module is by example.

All the forms below have been implemented and should work as described for this version of the module.

Here we go...

=over

=item * C<my [$foo, $bar] = $array_ref;>

Define 2 C<my> variables and assign the array-ref values in order.

If there are less values on the RHS, the variables will be undefined. If there are more, they will be ignored.

The RHS can be a variable or any expression as long as its value is an array-ref.

=item * C<my [$foo, $bar] = (111, 222);> B<ERROR>

If the LHS is an array-ref the RHS must also be an array-ref. If the LHS is a hash-ref the RHS must also be a hash-ref.

=back

=begin html

<!---
* `my ($foo, [$bar, $baz]) = (111, [222, 333]);`

  This works fine because the types match in the LHS and RHS lists.
--->

=end html

=over

=item * C<our [$foo, $bar] = $array_ref;>

Define C<our> variables and assign the array-ref values.

=item * C<local [$foo, $bar] = $array_ref;>

Define C<local> variables and assign the array-ref values.

=item * C<my $foo; our $bar; [$foo, $bar] = $array_ref;>

Assign the array-ref values to 2 pre-defined variables.

=item * C<my {$foo, $bar} = {bar => 111, foo => 222};>

Define 2 C<my> variables and use the variable name as the key to extract from the hash-ref on the RHS.

=back

=head2 TO DO

There are many more forms that are intended to work, and many more cases we haven't thought of yet. Pretty much any place in Perl where a variable can be assigned to should also allow a structure to be assigned to.

Here's the current list of things intended to be added soon:

    my [ _, $x2, _, $x4 ] = $d;         # Use _ ignore an array element
    my [ $x1, $_ ] = $d;                # $_ actually sets $_
    my [ $x1, $x2=42 ] = $d;            # Set a default variable
    my [ $x1, @xs ] = $d;               # Set remaining into an array
    my [ $x1, @xs, $x2 ] $d;            # Set all but first and last into array
    my [ $first, [], $last ] = $d;      # Ignore middle
    my [ 25, $x26, $x27 ] = $d;         # Use a number to ignore muliple
    my [ $x1, $x2, -25 ] = $d;          # Take -27 and -26

    my [ @a, @b, @c ] = $d;             # Evenly distribute values over multiple arrays
    my [ @a, @_, @_ ] = $d;             # Take every third element (0, 3, 6, ...)
    my [ @a, @19 ] = $d;                # Take every 19th element

    # Hash destructuring:
    my { $k1, $k2 } = $d;               # Unpack a hash ref
    my { $k1, $k2 } = %d;               # Unpack a hash

    my { k1 => $x, $k2 } = $d;          # Use a var name different than key
    my { k1 => $x=111, $k2=222 } = $d;  # Set default values

    my { $key => $val } = $d;           # Unpack a single pair hash
    my { @key => @val } = $d;           # Unpack all keys and values (unzip)
    my [ @key => @val ] = $d;           # Unpack all keys and values *sorted*
    my { @keys } = $d;                  # Key array of all keys
    my [ @keys ] = $d;                  # Key array of all keys *sorted* (RHS must be hashref)
    my { @keys => _ } = $d;             #   Same as above
    my [ @keys => _ ] = $d;             #   Same as above but *sorted*
    my { _ => @vals } = $d;             # Get array of all values

    my { 'a-key', 'b.key' } = $d;       # Short for { 'a-key' => $a_key, 'b.key' => $b_key }
    my { 'foo bar' } = $d;              # Short for { "foo bar" => $foo_bar }

    # Nested destructuring:
    my { k1 => { $k2, $k3 }} = $d;      # Unpack nested hash (no $k1)
    my { $k1 => { $k2, $k3 }} = $d;     # Unpack nested hash w/ $k1 set to inner hash ref
    my { k1 => [ $x1, $x2 ]} = $d;      # Unpack array ref nested in hash (no nesting depth limit)

    # Operator assignments:
    [ $a, $b ] //= $d;                  # Only assign undefined variables
    [ $a, $b ] .= $d;                   # Append string to every var
    [ $a, $b ] += $d;                   # Add number to every var

    # In for loops:
    for my { $k => [ $x1, $x2 ]} (@list) {  # Unpack each collection from a list
    for my { $k => $v } (%hash) { $d;   # Unpack each key/val pair from a hash

    # In signatures:
    sub foo( $a, {$k1, [ $x1, $x2 ]} ) { … }
    sub foo({
        $name = "Fred",
        number => $num = 42,
    }) { … }

    # Regex:
    my [ $match, $cap1, $cap2 ] = $str =~ /…/;
    my [ $match, $cap1, $cap2 ] = /…/;  # Match using $_

    # Inline list expressions:
    my [ $a, @l{reverse}, $y, $z ] = $d;
    my [ $a, @l{map ($_ + 1), grep ($_ > 10)}, $z ] = $d;
    my [ $a, @{join '-'} => $s, $z ] = $d;

=head1 IMPLEMENTATION

All of the new assignment forms introduced here would cause Perl syntax or runtime errors without using C<assign.pm>.

Currently this module is a working prototype that uses Filter::Simple (Perl source code filtering) and PPI.pm (to parse and restructure Perl code).

Each destructuring form is removed and replaced with the appropriate Perl code to do the intended actions.

When all the syntax forms have been implemented and fully tested and the module has become stable, it will be rewritten as an XS module.

Note: Code transformations adjust the line numbers with C<#line <num>> statements so that warnings and errors report line numbers that make sense.

=head1 PRIOR ART

Destructuring assignment is available in many common languages. The C<assign> module got many ideas from these.

=over

=item * L<CoffeeScript|https://alchaplinsky.github.io/hard-rock-coffeescript/syntax/destructuring_assignment.html>

=item * L<JavaScript|https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Destructuring_assignment>

=item * L<Python|https://riptutorial.com/python/example/14981/destructuring-assignment>

=item * L<Clojure|https://clojure.org/guides/destructuring>

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

=over

=item * Ingy döt Net C<<<ingy@ingy.net>>>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2023 by Ingy döt Net

This is free software, licensed under:

The MIT (X11) License

=cut
