=head1 NAME

Exception::Backtrace::Stackframe - Stack Frame Information

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The generic class for representing Perl and C/C++ stack frame. For
perl-specific frame information access see
L<Exception::Backtrace::PerlFrame>.

The object of the class cannot be constructed directly. All properties
are read only.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 $frame->to_string()

Stringifies frame. For perl frame it mimics L<Carp> output, for
C/C++ frame it mimics C<gdb> output.

=head2 $frame->address()

An IP (instruction ponter aka Program Counter) of the stack frame.

As it has sense only for C/C++ frame, for Perl frame it is zero.

=head2 $frame->offset()

The difference between frame address and the base shared object (.so)
address.

As it has sense only for C/C++ frame, for Perl frame it is zero.

=head2 $frame->library()

For Perl frame it is the package name, for C/C++ frame it is the path
of the loaded share object (.so)

=head2 $frame->name()

The name of the function of a stack frame. As for C/C++ it might be
impossible to determine (i.e. as there are no debug info), it might
be empty string.

=head2 $frame->file()

The source file of a stack frame. As for C/C++ it might be
impossible to determine (i.e. as there are no debug info), it might
be empty string.

=head2 $frame->line_no()

The line of the source file of a stack frame. As for C/C++ it might be
impossible to determine (i.e. as there are no debug info), it might
be empty string.

=head1 REFERENCE

L<Exception::Backtrace>

L<Exception::Backtrace::PerlFrame>

=cut
