# PODNAME: Neo4j::Driver::Net
# ABSTRACT: Explains the design of the networking modules

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Neo4j::Driver::Net - Explains the design of the networking modules

=head1 VERSION

version 0.22

=head1 OVERVIEW

Each L<Neo4j::Driver::Session> has exactly one networking helper
instance that is used by the session and all of its transactions
to communicate with the Neo4j server. This document discusses the
features and known limitations of the networking helpers.

B<Unless you're planning to develop custom networking modules
for the driver, you probably don't need to read this document.>

The helpers don't communicate with the server directly. Instead,
they control another module that has responsibility for the actual
network transmissions. This module can be customised by using the
driver's C<net_module> config option. The API that custom networking
modules need to implement is described in L</"EXTENSIONS"> below.

Network responses received from the server will be parsed for Neo4j
statement results by the appropriate result handler for the response
format used by the server. A custom networking module can also
provide custom response parsers, for example implemented in XS code.

Please note that the division of labour between sessions or
transactions on the one hand and networking helpers on the other
hand is an internal implementation detail of the driver and as such
is B<subject to unannounced change.> While some of those details are
explained in this document, this is done only to help contributors
and users of I<public> APIs better understand the driver's design.
See L</"USE OF INTERNAL APIS"> for more information on this topic.

=head1 SYNPOSIS

 $helper = Neo4j::Driver::Net::HTTP->new({
   net_module => 'Local::Neo4jUserAgentHTTP',
 });
 
 $helper->_set_database($db_name);
 $helper->{active_tx} = ...;
 @results = $helper->_run($tx, @statements);
 
 # Parsing a JSON result
 die unless $helper->{http_agent}->http_headers->{success};
 $json_coder = $helper->{http_agent}->json_coder;
 $json_coder->decode( $helper->{http_agent}->fetch_all );

B<WARNING:> Some of these calls are private APIs.
See L</"USE OF INTERNAL APIS">.

=head1 WARNING: EXPERIMENTAL

The design of the networking helper APIs is not entirely finalised.
While no further I<major> changes are expected, you should probably
let me know if you already are creating networking extensions, so
that I can try to accommodate your use case and give you advance
notice of changes.

The driver's C<net_module> config option is
L<experimental|Neo4j::Driver/"Custom networking modules"> as well.

=head1 FEATURES

The networking helpers primarily deal with the following tasks:

=over

=item * Establish a database connection.

=item * Provide L<Neo4j::Driver::ServerInfo>.

=item * Handle certain generic protocol requirements
(such as HTTP content negotiation).

=item * Sync state between server transactions and
driver transaction objects.

=item * Control the translation of Cypher statements
to network transmissions, and of network transmissions
to statement results.

=back

HTTP connections use proactive content negotiation
(L<RFC 7231|https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-3.4.1>)
to obtain a suitable response from the Neo4j server. The driver
supports both Jolt and JSON as result formats. There is also
a fallback result handler, which is used to parse error
messages out of C<text/*> responses. The HTTP result handlers
are individually queried for the media types they support.
This information is cached by the networking helper.

All result handlers inherit a common interface from
L<Neo4j::Driver::Result>. They provide methods to initialise and
bless result data records as L<Neo4j::Driver::Record> objects.
Result handlers are also responsible that all values returned
from Neo4j are provided to users in the format that is documented
for L<Neo4j::Driver::Record/"get">. For backwards compatibility,
a lot of the internal data structures currently match the format
of Neo4j JSON responses.

The first HTTP connection to a Neo4j server is always made to the
L<Discovery API|https://neo4j.com/docs/http-api/4.2/discovery/>,
which is used to obtain L<Neo4j::Driver::ServerInfo> and the
transaction endpoint URI template. These are the only GET
requests made by the driver.
Because of a known issue with Neo4j, the C<Accept> request
header field needs to be varied by HTTP request method
(L<#12644|https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j/issues/12644>).

With HTTP being a stateless protocol, Neo4j supports multiple
concurrent transactions by using a different URL for each one
in a REST-like fashion. For requests made to such explicit
transaction endpoints, the Neo4j
L<Transactional HTTP API|https://neo4j.com/docs/http-api/4.2/actions/>
always provides transaction status information in the response.
Transactions that remain open include an expiration time. The
networking helper parses and stores this timestamp and uses it to
track which transactions are still open and which have timed out.
The origination C<Date> field is used to synchronise the clocks
of the driver and the Neo4j server
(L<RFC 7231|https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-7.1.1.2>).

Bolt, on the other hand, currently only supports a single open
transaction per connection. While a Bolt connection can be viewed
as a simple state machine in the backend Bolt library (see
L<Bolt Protocol Server State Spec|https://7687.org/bolt/bolt-protocol-server-state-specification-4.html#appendix---bolt-message-state-transitions>),
L<Neo4j::Bolt> currently doesn't allow users to directly observe
state changes, so it is currently somewhat difficult to determine
the Bolt connection state. The driver attempts to infer it based
on the behaviour of L<Neo4j::Bolt>, and mostly gets it right, but
there may be some as-yet-unknown issues. Bug reports are welcome.

One key difference between HTTP and Bolt is the handling of
transaction state in case of Neo4j errors. According to
L<Neo4j Status Codes|https://neo4j.com/docs/status-codes/4.2/>,
the effect of errors is always a transaction rollback. On HTTP,
these rollbacks take place immediately. On Bolt, however, the
transaction is typically only marked as uncommittable on the Neo4j
server, but the Bolt connection is not actually put into the
C<FAILED> state immediately. To try and work around this difference
between HTTP and Bolt, this driver's Bolt networking handler always
attempts an explicit transaction rollback if faced with any error
condition. Again, this approach mostly gets it right, but there
may be some remaining issues, particularly when network errors and
server errors happen simultaneously.

=head1 COMPATIBILITY

L<Neo4j::Driver> S<version 0.21> is compatible with
S<L<Neo4j::Bolt> 0.01> or later.

When using HTTP, S<L<Neo4j::Driver> 0.21> supports determining the
version of any Neo4j server via L<Neo4j::Driver::Session/"server">.
This even works on S<Neo4j 1.x>, but running statements on
S<Neo4j 1.x> will fail, because it lacks the transactional API.

S<L<Neo4j::Driver> 0.21> is compatible with Neo4j S<versions 2.x>,
S<3.x, and 4.x>. It supports HTTP responses in the
L<formats|https://neo4j.com/docs/http-api/4.2/actions/result-format/>
JSON and Jolt (both strict mode and sparse mode).

For Bolt as well as HTTP, future versions of the driver will tend
to implement new requirements in order to stay compatible with
newer versions of Neo4j. Support for old Neo4j or library versions
is likely to only be dropped with major updates to the driver
(such as S<0.x to 1.x>).

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

As described above, there may be cases in which the state of a
Bolt connection is not determined correctly, leading to unexpected
failures. If such bugs do exist, they are expected to mostly happen
in rare edge cases, but please be sure to report any problems.

Clock synchronisation using the HTTP C<Date> header does not take
into account network delays. In case of high network latency, the
driver may treat transactions as open even though they have already
expired on the server. To address this, you could either increase
the transaction idle timeout in F<neo4j.conf> or manipulate the
return value of C<date_header()> in a custom networking module.

The metadata in HTTP JSON responses is often insufficient to fully
describe the response data. In particular:

=over

=item * Path metadata doesn't include node labels or relationship
type (L<#12613|https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j/issues/12613>).

=item * Records with fields that are maps or lists have unparsable
metadata (L<#12306|https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j/issues/12306>).

=item * Byte arrays are coded as lists of integers in JSON results.

=back

As of S<Neo4j 4.2>, the Jolt documentation for byte arrays
doesn't match the implementation
(L<#12660|https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j/issues/12660>). Future
Neo4j versions might fix the implementation to match the docs.

Future versions of Neo4j are likely to use a different media
type for Jolt responses
(L<#12663|https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j/issues/12663>).

Neo4j spatial and temporal types are not currently implemented
in all response format parsers.

=head1 EXTENSIONS

=head2 Custom Bolt networking modules

By default, Bolt networking uses the amazing XS module
L<Neo4j::Bolt> by Mark A. Jensen (MAJENSEN), which in turn uses the
S<C library> L<libneo4j-client|https://neo4j-client.net/>
to actually connect to the Neo4j server. Updates and improvements
are quite possibly best made directly in those libraries, so that
not only L<Neo4j::Driver>, but also other users benefit from them.

If the driver's C<net_module> config option is used with a Bolt
connection, the module name provided will be used in place of
L<Neo4j::Bolt> and will have to match its API I<exactly.>
It is possible to provide a factory object instead.

Results will be handled by L<Neo4j::Driver::Result::Bolt>, unless a
custom C<net_module> provides a method named C<result_handlers()>.
If it does, it's expected to return a list containing a single
module name, which will be used as a result handler instead.
See L</"Custom result handlers"> below.

=head2 Custom HTTP networking modules

L<Neo4j::Driver> includes a single HTTP networking module that will
be used if the C<net_module> config option is set to C<""> or
C<undef> (the default). If another module name is given as
C<net_module>, that module will be used instead of the included
module. Make sure you always C<use> a custom networking module.
If you extend the included module through inheritance, you also
must C<use parent>.

The included module may change in future. As of S<version 0.21>,
the default module uses L<LWP> directly. Earlier versions used
L<REST::Client>.

It is possible to set a factory object as C<net_module> instead of
providing a module name. The factory object must have a C<new()>
method returning an object that implements the interface described
in the following section.

If you look at the source of existing networking modules for
inspiration, please note that they may use internal APIs.
Please make sure you read L</"USE OF INTERNAL APIS"> before you
start copying existing code.

=head3 API of an HTTP networking module

The driver primarily uses HTTP networking modules by first calling
the C<request()> method, which initiates a request on the network,
and then calling other methods to obtain information about the
response.

 $net_module = $driver->config('net_module');
 $agent = $net_module->new($driver);
 
 $agent->request('GET', '/', undef, 'application/json');
 $status  = $agent->http_header->{status};
 $type    = $agent->http_header->{content_type};
 $content = $agent->fetch_all;

HTTP networking modules must implement the following methods.

The driver will make all method calls using the arrow operator
(C<< -> >>). The method descriptions below use a syntax similar to
that of C<use feature 'signatures'>; however, the first argument
(C<$class> or C<$self>) is omitted from the signatures for clarity.

=over

=item date_header

 sub date_header () { $date }

Return the HTTP C<Date:> header from the last response as string.
If the server doesn't have a clock, the header will be missing;
in this case, the value returned must be either the empty
string or (optionally) the current time in non-obsolete
L<RFC5322:3.3|https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5322#section-3.3>
format.
May block until the response headers have been fully received.

=item fetch_all

 sub fetch_all () { $response_content }

Block until the response to the last network request has been fully
received, then return the entire content of the response buffer.

This method must generally be idempotent, but the behaviour of this
method if called after C<fetch_event()> has already been called for
the same request is undefined.

=item fetch_event

 sub fetch_event () { $next_event }

Return the next Jolt event from the response to the last network
request as a string. When there are no further Jolt events, this
method returns an undefined value. If the response hasn't been
fully received at the time this method is called and the internal
response buffer does not contain at least one event, this method
will block until at least one event is available.

The behaviour of this method is undefined for responses that
are not in Jolt format. The behaviour is also undefined if
C<fetch_all()> has already been called for the same request.

=item http_header

 sub http_header () { \%headers }

Return a hashref with the following entries, representing
headers and status of the last response.

=over

=item * C<content_type> – S<e. g.> C<"application/json">

=item * C<location> – URI reference

=item * C<status> – status code, S<e. g.> C<"404">

=item * C<success> – truthy for 2xx status codes

=back

All of these entries must exist and be defined scalars.
Unavailable values must use the empty string.
Blocks until the response headers have been fully received.

=item http_reason

 sub http_reason () { $reason_phrase }

Return the HTTP reason phrase (S<e. g.> C<"Not Found"> for
status 404). If unavailable, C<""> is returned instead.
May block until the response headers have been fully received.

=item json_coder

 sub json_coder () { $json_coder }

Return a L<JSON::XS>-compatible coder object (for result parsers).
It must offer a method C<decode()> that can handle the return
values of C<fetch_event()> and C<fetch_all()> (which may be
expected to be a byte sequence that is valid UTF-8) and should
produce C<$JSON::PP::true> and C<$JSON::PP::false> for booleans.

The default module included with the driver returns an instance
of L<JSON::MaybeXS>.

=item new

 sub new ($driver) { $self }

Initialises the object. May or may not establish a network
connection. May access C<$driver> config options using the
method L<Neo4j::Driver/"config"> only.

As of S<version 0.21>, not all aspects of the configuration of
L<Neo4j::Driver> instances can be queried using C<config()>.
This issue will be addressed soon.

=item protocol

 sub protocol () { $http_version }

Return the HTTP version (S<e. g.> C<"HTTP/1.1">) from the last
response, or just C<"HTTP"> if the version can't be determined.
May block until the response headers have been fully received.

=item request

 sub request ($method, $url, $json, $accept) { }

Start an HTTP request on the network. The following positional
parameters are given:

=over

=item * C<$method> – HTTP method, S<e. g.> C<"POST">

=item * C<$url> – string with request URL

=item * C<$json> – reference to hash of JSON object

=item * C<$accept> – string with value for the C<Accept:> header

=back

The request C<$url> is to be interpreted relative to the server
base URL given in the driver config.

The C<$json> hashref must be serialised before transmission.
It may include booleans encoded as the values C<\1> and C<\0>.
For requests to be made without request content, the value
of C<$json> will be C<undef>.

C<$accept> will have different values depending on C<$method>;
this is a workaround for a known issue in the Neo4j server
(L<#12644|https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j/issues/12644>).

The C<request()> method may or may not block until the response
has been received.

=item result_handlers

 sub result_handlers () { @module_names }

Return a list of result handler modules to be used to parse
Neo4j statement results delivered through this module.
The module names returned will be used in preference to the
result handlers built into the driver.

See L</"Custom result handlers"> below.

=item uri

 sub uri () { $uri }

Return the server base URL as string or L<URI> object
(for L<Neo4j::Driver::ServerInfo>).
At least scheme, host, and port must be included.

=back

=head2 Custom result handlers

The result handler API is currently not formally specified.
It is an internal API that is still evolving and may be subject
to unannounced change.

Even so, it's fully possible to implement a custom result handler.
You should probably drop me a line when you begin work on one;
see L</"USE OF INTERNAL APIS">.

=head1 USE OF INTERNAL APIS

B<Public APIs> generally include everything that is documented
in POD. However, I<this> document may contain some mentions of
I<private> APIs (where it does, it tries to be explicit about it).
The section L</"Custom HTTP networking modules"> describes a
public API.

B<Private internals,> on the other hand, include all package-global
variables (C<our ...>), all methods with names that begin with an
underscore (C<_>) and I<all> cases of accessing the data structures
of blessed objects directly (S<e. g.> C<< $session->{net} >>).
Additionally, the C<new()> methods of packages without POD
documentation of their own are to be considered private internals.

You are of course free to use any driver internals in your own code,
but if you do so, you also bear the sole responsibility for keeping
it working after updates to the driver. Changes to internals are
usually not announced in the F<Changes> list, so you should consider
watching GitHub commits. It is discouraged to try this approach if
your code is used in production.

If you have difficulties achieving your goals without the use of
driver internals or private APIs, you are most welcome to file a
GitHub issue about that (or write to my CPAN email address with
your concerns; make sure you mention Neo4j in the subject to beat
the spam filters).

I can't I<promise> that I'll be able to accommodate your use case,
but I am going to try.

=head1 AUTHOR

Arne Johannessen <ajnn@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2016-2021 by Arne Johannessen.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The Artistic License 2.0 (GPL Compatible)

=cut
