# PODNAME: Neo4j::Driver::Types
# ABSTRACT: Type mapping from Neo4j to Perl and vice versa

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Neo4j::Driver::Types - Type mapping from Neo4j to Perl and vice versa

=head1 VERSION

version 0.45

=head1 MAPPING

Neo4j values can have a variety of types, and mapping these types
onto Perl types and vice versa isn't always straight-forward.
L<Neo4j::Driver> is designed to use the L<Neo4j::Types> system
as far as possible.

When this driver returns values from queries, Neo4j types are
represented by the Perl types shown in the following list.

=over

=item Structural values

=over

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Node>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Relationship>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Path>

=back

=item Temporal and spatial values

=over

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::DateTime>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Duration>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Point>

=back

=item Simple property values

=over

=item * scalar C<"A"> E<ndash> strings

=item * scalar C<123> E<ndash> float and integer numbers

=item *
L<builtin::true|builtin/"true"> / L<builtin::false|builtin/"false">
E<ndash> booleans

=back

=item Constructed values

=over

=item * hash ref  C<{ ... }> E<ndash> Neo4j maps

=item * array ref C<[ ... ]> E<ndash> Neo4j lists

=back

=item Null values

=over

=item * C<undef>

=back

=item Byte arrays

=over

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::ByteArray>

=back

=back

In principle, you can also use values of these Perl types as
query parameters, and they will be correctly recognised by Neo4j.
However, Neo4j doesn't accept structural values (nodes /
relationships) as query parameters. See below for further
limitations that depend on the network protocol.

Perl "distinguished" core boolean values
(L<builtin::true|builtin/"true"> and
L<builtin::false|builtin/"false">) are only available
starting with Perl v5.36. On older Perls, L<JSON::PP>::true
and L<JSON::PP>::false are used instead. These are blessed
objects overloaded to evaluate correctly in boolean context.
Additionally, C<\1> and C<\0> are accepted as literal booleans
in query parameters.

=head1 USAGE NOTES

=over

=item Element IDs and legacy numeric IDs

Neo4j is in the process of replacing legacy S<numeric IDs>
with S<element IDs>. On S<Neo4j 5> and newer, S<numeric IDs>
may not be reliably available and methods like C<id()>
may issue a warning in the C<deprecated> category.
Use C<element_id()> on S<Neo4j 5> instead.

=item Representation of nodes and relationships

Node and relationship objects are not in a one-to-one relation
with nodes and relationships in a Neo4j graph. If the same
Neo4j entity is fetched multiple times, then multiple distinct
objects will be created by the driver. If your intention is to
verify that S<e. g.> two node objects in Perl describe the
same node in the Neo4j database, you need to compare their
S<element IDs>.

=item Perl number / string coercions

A Perl scalar may internally be represented as a number
or a string (see L<perldata/Scalar values>). Perl usually
auto-converts one into the other based on the context in which
the scalar is used. However, Perl cannot know the context
of a Neo4j query parameter, because queries are just opaque
strings to Perl. Most often your scalars will already have the
correct internal flavour. A typical example for a situation
in which this is I<not> the case are numbers parsed out of
strings using regular expressions. If necessary, you can force
conversion of such values into the correct type by using
L<JSON::Types> or with simple unary coercions like this:

 $number =  0 + $scalar;
 $string = '' . $scalar;

=item Properties hash reference

The C<properties()> method of node and relationship objects
currently makes a new defensive copy of the properties hash
each time it's called. S<Version 1.xx> of the driver will
change this to give a reference to the internal hash instead,
providing a significant performance increase. Until then,
you might consider caching the hash ref locally.

=back

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

=head2 Bolt networking

For connecting to a Neo4j server using the Bolt protocol, this
driver will by default use L<Neo4j::Bolt>. The following bugs
and limitations related to types are known for the latest
released version of L<Neo4j::Bolt> (0.4203 at time of this writing):

=over

=item *
Query parameters containing an empty list or empty map will
be converted to a Cypher C<null> value
(L<perlbolt#19|https://github.com/majensen/perlbolt/issues/19>).

=item *
With L<Neo4j::Bolt> version 0.01, the value of node or
relationship properties named C<_end>, C<_node>, C<_labels>,
C<_relationship>, C<_start>, or C<_type> may not be returned
correctly. Note that support for all L<Neo4j::Bolt> versions
earlier than 0.4201 will be phased out entirely soon.

=item *
L<builtin::true|builtin/"true"> and
L<builtin::false|builtin/"false"> are not yet
supported in query parameters. Use C<\1> and C<\0>
or L<JSON::PP::Boolean> instead.

=item *
Byte arrays are not yet supported as query parameters.
Byte arrays are coded as unblessed strings in Bolt results.

=item *
Temporal and spatial values are not yet supported.

=back

=head2 Jolt networking

For connecting to a Neo4j server (S<version 4.2> and later)
using the HTTP or HTTPS protocol, this driver will by default
use its built-in Jolt networking. The following bugs and
limitations related to types are known for Jolt in this
version of L<Neo4j::Driver>:

=over

=item *
Byte arrays are not supported as query parameters.
Byte arrays are coded as unblessed strings in Jolt results.

=item *
Temporal and spatial values are not supported as query parameters.

=item *
The use of L<builtin::true|builtin/"true"> and
L<builtin::false|builtin/"false"> in query parameters
requires recent enough JSON module versions
(S<L<Cpanel::JSON::XS> 4.38> / S<L<JSON::PP> 4.11>).

=back

=head2 JSON networking

For connecting to a Neo4j server earlier than S<version 4.2>
using the HTTP or HTTPS protocol, L<Neo4j::Driver> will by
default use its built-in JSON networking. The following bugs
and limitations related to types are known for JSON:

=over

=item *
Byte arrays are not supported as query parameters.
Byte arrays are coded as lists of integers in JSON results.

=item *
Temporal and spatial values are not supported as query parameters.

=item *
The use of L<builtin::true|builtin/"true"> and
L<builtin::false|builtin/"false"> in query parameters
requires recent enough JSON module versions
(S<L<Cpanel::JSON::XS> 4.38> / S<L<JSON::PP> 4.11>).

=item *
The value of node or relationship properties named C<_meta>
may not be returned correctly.

=item *
Fields in records containing maps, lists, or temporal values
may be returned with
incorrect type or meta data due to a bug in the Neo4j server
(L<neo4j#12306|https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j/issues/12306>).

=item *
The C<labels> of nodes and C<type> of relationships that are
returned as part of a Neo4j path are unavailable, because that
information is not provided by the Neo4j server
(L<neo4j#12613|https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j/issues/12613>).

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item *
L<Neo4j::Driver>

=item *
L<Neo4j::Types>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Arne Johannessen (L<AJNN|https://metacpan.org/author/AJNN>)

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2016-2024 by Arne Johannessen.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Artistic License 2.0 or (at your option) the same terms
as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
