=pod

=head1 NAME

Apache::Voodoo - or just Voodoo for short; is a web application framework
for Apache 1.3 and 2.0.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Voodoo provides a fast, flexible and powerful framework for website development.
It's goal is to handle all the repetitious, tricky and difficult interactions with mod_perl for you.

Some features include:

=over 4

=item * Abstraction of mod_perl and Apache interaction away from the user's code

=item * MVC (default views for HTML via HTML::Template, and JSON)

=item * Dynamic reloading of modules upon change (bypass-able for production sites)

=item * Automatic session management

=item * Automatic database connection and persistence

=item * Powerful database abstraction system vi L<Apache::Voodoo::Table>

=item * Integrated debugging tools plus support for FirePHP and Log4perl

=item * Tansparently add SOAP access and WSDL to your code

=item * Simple enough API that the learning curve is pretty shallow

=back

=head1 Documentation Index

I like pod as much as the next as the next JAPH, but its limitations start to show when
you need to document something more complex or extensive than module.  The documentation
is located here:

http://www.apachevoodoo.com

=head1 BUGS

The Native debug template may not work in all versions of Internet Explorer.
I didn't put much effort into making it work in IE; I don't use it and quiet frankly,
neither should anyone else :)

Any sort of feedback is most welcome.

=head1 HISTORY

This creature first came to life sometime between 2000 and 2001.  At the time, there was nothing
available that really suited my needs, so I wrote what I wanted :)  Voodoo has been in use and
refinement by myself and a small group of my colleagues ever since.  It has always been my intent
to release this thing into the wild, but I could never seem to find the time to clean up a few
ugly parts and write all the much needed documentation.

=head1 CREDITS

Fixes, bug reports, ideas and suggestions have been contributed by:

=over 4

=item Paul Tinsley

=item Jeff Anderson L<http://www.perlmonks.org/index.pl?node=jeffa>

=item Kevin Smith

=item Mike Semich

=item Eduardo Arino de la Rubia

=item Doug Gruber L<http://search.cpan.org/~dougthug/>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Maverick, /\/\averick@smurfbaneDOTorg

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2005 Steven Edwards.  All rights reserved.

You may use and distribute Voodoo under the terms described in the LICENSE file included with
this package or L<Apache::Voodoo::license>.  The summary is it's a legalese version of the
Artistic License :)

