=encoding ISO8859-1

=head1 NAME

Alien::GvaScript::CustomButtons - Manage buttons creation, styling and keyboard navigation

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Composed of three subclasses that take care of rendering and
displaying application buttons.

=over

=item B<GvaScript.CustomButtons.Button>

=item B<GvaScript.CustomButtons.ButtonNavigation>

=item B<GvaScript.CustomButtons.ActionsBar>

=back


Displayed buttons will support hovering effects through custom css classnames
and keyboard navigation using RIGHT and LEFT arrows.

Buttons in their different states (idle, focus and hover) are easily
styled using css classes.

=head1 GvaScript.CustomButtons.Button 

For rendering a Single Button

=head2 Usage

=head3 Javascript

  var container = $('my_button_will_display_here');
  var button_properties = {
    id        : 'btn_'+(new Date()).getTime(),
    callback  : Prototype.emptyFunction, // btnClickHandler
    condition : true,                    // boolean indicating whether to render button
    width     : 'auto',                  // string value including unit. ex: '100px', '5em' .. 
    type      : 'button',                // button|reset|submit
    style     : {borderWidth: '2px'}     // hash of inline style elemets to be set on the button container
    label     : 'GVA_SCRIPT_BUTTON'      // button label
  }
  
  // create a new button and display in container
  var mybutton = new GvaScript.CustomButtons.Buttons(container, button_properties);


=head3 HTML

The button will be rendered and resulting HTML will be placed in th designated container.

  <div id="my_button_will_display_here" style="border-width: 2px;">
    <span class="gva-btn-container">
      <span class="left"/>
      <span class="center">
          <button type="button" class="btn" style="width: auto;" id="btn_1227001526005">
              GVA_SCRIPT_BUTTON
          </button>
      </span>
      <span class="right"/>
    </span>
  </div>


=head2 Methods

=head3 new

  var mybutton = new GvaScript.CustomButtons.Buttons(container, properties);

The C<properties> hash describes the button behavior and display, with 
the following entries :

=over

=item id I<(string)>

unique identifier of the button - will be set to the <button> element.

optional - system will provide one if none provided.

=item tabindex I<(numeric)>

numeric value of the tabindex to set on the generated button element.

optional - button will not have tabindex attribute if none provided.

=item callback I<(function)>

onclick handler of the <button> element - will execute in the B<button context>.

optional - defaulted to empty function.

=item condition I<(boolean|function)>

boolean value B<or> a function that returns a boolean value indicating whether to render and display the button or not.
Note that if condition is false, the button will B<not> be a part of the DOM.

optional - defaulted to true.

=item width I<(string)>

string value to set on the style.width of the <button> element.
string value B<must> include the unit or else will be ignored.

optional - defaulted to 'auto'.

=item type I<(string)>

the I<type> attribute of the <button> element. could be one of the following:

=over

=item button

generic  behavior of the button.

=item submit

submits containing <form> when clicked.

=item reset

resets containing <form> when clicked.

=back

optional - default to 'button'

=item style I<(hash)>

hash containing style elements to be set to the inline style attribute of the button container element.

optional - defaulted to {}.

=item label I<(string)>

label of the button.

optional - defaulted to 'GVA_SCRIPT_BUTTON'.

=back


=head3 destroy

  mybutton.destroy()

This method removes the click handler attached to the button.
Call this method when the button is removed
from the DOM.




=head1 GvaScript.CustomButtons.ButtonNavigation

For adding support of keyboard navigation over a list of buttons.
Mostly used internally with GvaScript.CustomButtons.ActionsBar class.

The class searches for <button> or <input type="button|submit|reset"> elements that has a predefined classname 
and that are contained in a provided container.

I<This class is used implicitly by the ActionsBar class>.

=head2 Usage

=head3 Javascript

  // container of the buttons we are looking for
  var container  = $('my_buttons_are_contained_here');
  
  // classname of the buttons we are looking for
  var className  = 'gva-btn-container';
  
  // initialize ButtonNavigation to activate keyboard map
  var mybuttonnavigator = new GvaScript.CustomButtons.ButtonNavigation(container, {
    selectFirstBtn  : true, 
    className       : className,
    preventListBlur : false,
    flashClassName  : 'flash', 
    flashDuration   : 100
  });

=head3 HTML

I<class does not produce any HTML>


=head2 Methods

=head3 new

The C<properties> hash has the following entries : 

=over

=item selectFirstBtn I<(boolean)>

boolean indicating whether to give focus to the first button in the found list.

optional - defaulted to true

=item className I<(string)>

classname to match with button elements that are a part of navigation

optional - defaulted to 'BN_button'

=item preventListBlur I<(boolean)>

boolean indicating whether a user can use the TAB and S_TAB keys to prevent 
navigation outside the button list.

optional - defaulted to false

=item flashClassName I<(string)>

classname to give to the button when in flashing mode

optional - defaulted to 'flash'

=item flashDuration I<(numeric)>

value in millis indicating how long to keep the flashClassName set on the button

optional - defaulted to 100

=back


=head3 destroy

  mybuttonnavigator.destroy()

This method removes the different handlers attached on the buttons container.
Call this method when the buttons container is removed
from the DOM.



=head1 GvaScript.CustomButtons.ActionsBar 

For rendering a list of Buttons and adding support of keyboard navigation

=head2 Usage

=head3 Javascript

  var container = $('my_buttons_bar_will_display_here');
  var actionsbar_properties = {
    actions     : [],    // array of button_properties
    selectfirst : false  // focus on first button
  }
  
  // create a new buttons list and display next to each other in container
  var myactionsbar = new GvaScript.CustomButtons.ActionsBar(container, actionsbar_properties);


=head3 HTML

The list of buttons will be rendered one by one and the resulting HTML will be 
appended sequentially into the designated container.

  <div id="my_buttons_bar_will_display_here" class="gva-actionsbar">
    <span id="btn_1236083609358" class="gva-btn-container">
      <span class="left"/>
      <span class="center">
        <button class="btn" style="width: auto;" type="button">Modifier</button>
      </span>
      <span class="right"/>
    </span>
    <span id="btn_1236083609358" class="gva-btn-container">
      <span class="left"/>
      <span class="center">
        <button class="btn" style="width: auto;" type="button">Modifier</button>
      </span>
      <span class="right"/>
    </span>
  </div>



=head2 Methodes


=head3 new  

The C<properties> hash has the following entries :

=over

=item actions I<array>

list of button_properties describing a Button.

required.

=item selectfirst I<boolean>

boolean indicating whether to give focus to the first button in the list when the actionsbar finished rendering.

optional - defaulted to false.

=back


ActionsBar implicitly initializes ButtonNavigation object with following properties

  new GvaScript.CustomButtons.ButtonNavigation(this.container, {
    selectFirstBtn : this.options.selectfirst, 
    className      : 'gva-btn-container'
  });




=head3 destroy

  myactionsbar.destory();

This method removes the different handlers attached on the 
buttons and their container.
Call this method when the buttons container is removed
from the DOM.


=head1 CSS

Example CSS stylesheet for styling buttons.

By default, css classnames are prefixed by 'gva'.

This can be overloaded by a global js variable: CSS_PREFIX
if declared before the inclusion of this Library

Notice the B<btn-focus>, B<btn-hover> and B<flash> classnames that are used to style
the buttons in their different states.

    /* IE fix: to the ridiculously wide buttons in IE */
    .gva-btn-container .btn {width:1pt;overflow:visible;}
    /* END: IE specific */
    
    .gva-actionsbar {background-color:#E8E8E8;border:1px solid #8c8c8c;border-width:1px 0px;height:25px;padding:4px 0 1px;}
    .gva-btn-container {display:inline;}
    .gva-btn-container .btn {margin:0 3px;font-size:12px;cursor:pointer;}
    .gva-btn-container .btn {
        font-family:verdana,geneva,lucida,'lucida grande',arial,helvetica,sans-serif;
        background:none;
        border:none;
        cursor:pointer;
        padding:1px 2px;
        color:#000;
        background-color:transparent !important;
    }
    .gva-btn-container .btn {float:left;}
    .gva-btn-container.btn-focus .btn {color:#aa0000;}
    .gva-btn-container span {display:block;float:left;height:21px;}
    .gva-btn-container span.left {background:transparent url(btn_sprite.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 0;padding:0 1px 0 2px;margin-left:4px;}
    .gva-btn-container span.center {background:transparent url(btn_sprite.gif) repeat-x scroll 0 -42px;padding:0 2px}
    .gva-btn-container span.right {background:transparent url(btn_sprite.gif) no-repeat scroll 0 -21px;padding:0 1px 0 2px;}
    .gva-btn-container.btn-hover span.left {background-position:0 -63px;}
    .gva-btn-container.btn-hover span.center {background-position:0 -105px;}
    .gva-btn-container.btn-hover span.right {background-position:0 -84px;}
    .gva-btn-container.btn-focus span.left {background-position:0 -63px;}
    .gva-btn-container.btn-focus span.center {background-position:0 -126px;}
    .gva-btn-container.btn-focus span.right {background-position:0 -84px;}
    .gva-btn-container.flash .btn {color:red !important}



=head1 DEPENDENCIES

This class depends on other GvaScript classes:

=over

=item GvaScript.KeyMap

=back

