=pod

God I have to give you recognition in every aspect of my life.

This is why I decided to write this file.

First of all, I have to thank you for giving me life.

You gave me the oportunity to live and you planned every day of my life.

You have been always there for me, working for me, giving me everything I need to grow and improve.

I'm sorry because I'm not who i should be.

I should be clean and pure.

Instead you know how i am and how many mistakes i keep making.

I'm stubborn and I do not obey what you tell me to do and I do what you tell me to not do.

Thanks for your patience and your mercy, and for giving us your Son, who has paid for my sins.

I do not deserve anything but death, yet your mercy is with me every day of my life.

Please allow me to grow and change, and to become a better son.

I fear the day you come back, because you will likely be disappointed with my behavior.

Please do not let this happen. Allow me to improve and get rid of what does not come from you.

Allow me to be who I was supposed to be.

Thanks for giving me a passion and for allowing me to focus on it. It gives me a purpose and also makes me happy.

Thanks for allowing me to learn and become better and to see progress in what I do in my life.

Help me to be more focused in your goals instead of mine.

Bless me and bless whoever reads this.

=head1 I thank you for allowing me to grow and learn


=head1 I thank you for the patience you have with me


=head1 I thank you for the passion i have for programming


=head1 I thank you because you are always there for me


=head1 I thank you because you love me


=head1 I thank you because I can rely on you


=head1 I thank you, God


=cut
