=head1 NAME

LWP::Authen::OAuth2::Overview - Overview of accessing OAuth2 APIs with LWP::Authen::OAuth2

=head1 Introduction

This attempts to be the document that I wished existed when I first tried to
access an API that used OAuth 2 for authentication.  It explains what OAuth 2
is, how it works, what you need to know to use it, and how
L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> tries to make that easier.  It hopefully also explains
this in a way which will help you read documentation written by other people
who assume that you have this knowledge.

Feel free to read as much or little of this document as makes sense for you.
It is not actually designed to be read in a single sitting.

Since part of the purpose of this document is to familiarize you with the
jargon that you're likely to encounter, all terms commonly used in
discussions of OAuth 2 with a specific meaning are I<highlighted>.  Terms
will hopefully be clear from context, but all highlighted terms are explained
in the L</Terminology> section.

=head1 The Purpose of OAuth 2

OAuth 2 makes it easy for large I<service provider>s to write many APIs that
I<user>s can securely authorize third party I<consumer>s to use on their
behalf.  Everything good (and bad!) about the specification comes from this
fact.

It therefore specifies an authorization handshake through which permissions
are set up, and then a message signing procedure through which you can then
access the API.  Well, actually it specifies many variations of the
authorization handshake, and multiple possible signing procedures, because
large organizations run into a lot of use cases and try to cover them all.
But conceptually they are all fundamentally similar, and so have been lumped
together in one monster spec.

=head1 The Purpose of L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2>

L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> exists to help Perl programmers who want to be a
I<consumer> of an API protected by OAuth 2 to construct and make all of the
necessary requests to the I<service provider> that you need to make.  You
will still need to set up your relationship with the I<service provider>,
build your user interaction, manage private data (hooks are provided to make
that straightforward), and figure out how to use the API.

If that does not sound like it will make your life easier, then this module
is not intended for you.

If you are not a I<consumer>, this module is B<definitely> not intended for
you.  (Though this document may still be helpful.)

=head1 The Basic OAuth 2 Handshake

OAuth 2 allows a I<user> to tell a I<service provider> that a I<consumer>
should be allowed to access the I<user>'s data through an API.  This
permissioning happens through the following handshake.

The I<consumer> sends the I<user> to an I<authorization_url> managed by the
I<service provider>.  The I<service provider> tells the I<user> that the
I<consumer> wants access to that account and asks if this is OK.  The I<user>
confirms that it is, and is sent back to the I<consumer> with proof of the
conversation.  The I<consumer> presents that proof to the I<service provider>
along with proof that it actually is the I<consumer>, and is granted tokens
that will act like keys to the I<user>'s account.  After that the
I<consumer> can use said tokens to access the API which is protected by
OAuth 2.

All variations of OAuth 2 follow this basic pattern.  A large number of the
details can and do vary widely.  For example JavaScript applications that
want to make AJAX calls use a different kind of proof.  Applications
installed on devices without web browsers will pass information to/from the
user in different ways.  And each I<service provider> is free to do many,
many things differently.  The specification tries to document commonalities
in what different companies are doing, but does not mandate that they all do
the same thing.

(This sort of complexity is inevitable from a specification that tries to
make the lives of large I<service provider>s easy, and the lives of
I<consumer>s possible.)

=head1 Becoming a Consumer

If you want to access an OAuth 2 protected API, you need to become a
I<consumer>.  Here are the necessary steps, in the order that things happen
in.

=over 4

=item Register with the I<service provider>

You cannot access a I<service provider> without them knowing who you are.
After you go through their process, at a minimum you will get a public
I<client_id>, a private I<client_secret>, and have agreed on one or more
I<redirect_uri>s that the I<user> can use to deliver an
I<authorization code> back to you.  (That is not the only kind of proof that
the I<user> can be given for the I<consumer>, but it is probably the only
one that makes sense for a Perl I<consumer>.)

The I<redirect_uri> is often a C<https:///...> URL under your control.  You
also are likely to have had to tell the I<service provider> about what type
of software you're writing (webserver, command line, etc).  This determines
your I<client type>.  They may call this a scenario, or I<flow>, or something
else.

You will also need information about the I<service provider>.  Specifically
you will need to know their I<Authorization Endpoint> and I<Token Endpoint>.
They hopefully also have useful documentation about things like their APIs.

L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> is not directly involved in this step.

If a L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2::ServiceProvider::Foo> class exists, it should
already have the I<service provider> specific information, and probably has
summarized documentation that may make this smoother.  If you're really
lucky, there will be a CPAN module (or modules) for the API (or APIs) that
you want to use.  If those do not exist, please consider creating them.

If no such classes exist, you can still use the module.  Just pass the
necessary I<service provider> facts in your call to
C<LWP::Authen::OAuth2-E<gt>new(...)> and an appropriate
L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2::ServiceProvider> will be created for you on the fly.

=item Decide how to store sensitive information

All of the data shared between you and the I<service provider> has to be
stored on your end.  This includes tokens that will let you access private
information for the I<user>.  You need to be able to securely store and
access these.

L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> does not address this, beyond providing hooks that you
are free to use as you see fit.

=item Build interaction asking for I<user> permission

You need to have some way of convincing the I<user> that they want to give
you permission, ending in giving them an I<authorization_url> which sends
them off to the I<service provider> to authorize access.  This interaction
can range from a trivial conversation with yourself if you are the only
I<user> you will be handling, to a carefully thought through sales pitch if
you are trying to get members of the public to sign up.

L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> helps you build that URL.  The rest is up to you.

=item Build interaction receiving your I<authorization code>

When the I<user> finishes their interaction with the I<service provider>,
if the I<service provider> is sure that they know where to send the user
(they know your I<client_id>, your I<redirect_uri> makes sense to them) then
they will be sent to the I<redirect_uri> to pass information back to you.

If you succeeded, you will receive a I<code> in some way.  For instance if
your I<redirect_uri> is a URL, it will have a get parameter named C<code>.

You could get an C<error> parameter back instead.  See
L<RFC 6749|http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-4.1.2.1> for a
list of the possible errors.  Note that there are possible optional fields
with extra detail.  I would not advise optimism about their presence.

L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> is not involved with this.

=item Request tokens

Once you have that I<code> you are supposed to immediately trade it in
for tokens.  L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> provides the C<request_tokens>
method to do this for you.  Should you not actually get tokens, then the
C<request_tokens> method will trigger an error.

B<NOTE> that the I<code> cannot be expected to work more than once.  Nor can
you expect the I<service provider> to repeatedly hand out working I<code>s
for the same permission.  (The qualifier "working" matters.)  Being told this
will hopefully let you avoid a painful debugging session that I did not
enjoy.

=item Save and pass around tokens (maybe)

If you will need access to information in multiple locations (for instance
on several different web pages), then you are responsible for saving and
retrieving those tokens for future use.  L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> makes it
easy to serialize/deserialize tokens, and has hooks for when they change,
but leaves this step up to you.

=item Access the API

L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> takes care of signing your API requests.  What
requests you need to actually make are between you and the
I<service provider>.  With luck there will be documentation to help you
figure it out, and if you are really lucky that will be reasonably accurate.

=item Refresh access tokens (maybe)

The I<access token> that is used to sign requests will only work for a
limited time.  If you were given a I<request token>, that can be used to
request another I<access token> at any time.  Which raises the possibility
that you make a request, it fails because the I<access token> expired, you
refresh it, then need to retry your request.

L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> will perform this refresh/retry logic for you
automatically if possible, and provides a hook for you to know to save the
updated token data.

Some I<client type>s are not expected to use this pattern.  You are only
given an I<access token> and are expected to send the user through the
handshake again when that expires.  The second time through the redirect on
the I<service provider>'s side is immediate, so the user experience should be
seamless.  However L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> does not try to automate that
logic.  But C<$oauth2-E<gt>should_refresh> can let you know when it is time
to send the user through, and C<$oauth2-E<gt>can_refresh_tokens> will let you
know whether automatic refreshing is available.

Note that even if it is available, retry success is not guaranteed.  The
I<user> may revoke your access, the I<service provider> may decide you are a
suspicious character, there may have been a service outage, etc.
L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> will throw errors on these error conditions, handling
them is up to you.

=back

=head1 Terminology

This section is intended to be used in one of two ways.

The first option is that you can start reading someone else's documentation
and then refer back to here every time you run across a term that you do not
immediately understand.

The second option is that you can read this section straight through for a
reasonably detailed explanation of the OAuth 2 protocol, with all terms
explained.  In fact if you choose this option, you will find it explained in
more detail than you need to be a successful I<consumer>.

However if you use it in the second way, please be advised that this does
not try to be a complete and exact explanation of the specification.  In
particular the specification requires specific error handling from the
service provider that I have glossed over, and allows for extra types of
requests that I also glossed over.  (Particularly the bit about how any
I<service provider> at any time can add any new method that they want so
long as they invent a new I<grant_type> for it.)

=over 4

=item consumer

The I<consumer> is the one who needs to be authorized by OAuth 2 to be able
to "consume" an API.  If you're reading this document, that's likely to be
you.

=item client

The software on the I<consumer>'s side which actually will access the API.
From a I<consumer>'s point of view, a I<consumer> and the I<client> are
usually the same thing.  But, in fact, a single I<consumer> may actually
write multiple I<client>s.  And if one is a web application while another is
a command line program, the differences can matter to how OAuth 2 will work.

Where I have a choice in this document I say I<consumer> rather than
I<client> because that term is less likely overloaded in most
organizations.

=item user

The I<user> is the entity (person or company) who wishes to let the
I<consumer> access their account.

=item Resource Owner

What the OAuth 2 specification calls the I<user>, to focus attention on the
fact that they own the data which will get accessed.

I chose to say I<user> instead of I<Resource Owner> because that is my best
guess as to what the I<consumer> is most likely to already call them.

=item service provider

The I<service provider> is the one which hosts the account, restricts access
and offers the API.  For example, Google.

=item Resource Server

In the OAuth 2 specification, this is the service run by the
I<service provider> which hosts provides an API to the user's data.  The name
has deliberate symmetry with I<Resource Owner>.

=item Authorization Server

In the OAuth 2 specification, this is the service run by the
I<service provider> which is responsible for granting access to the
I<Resource Server>.

The I<consumer> does not need to care about this distinction, but it exposes
an important fact about how the I<service provider> is likely to be
structured internally.  You typically will have one team that is responsible
for granting access, tracking down I<client>s that seem abusive, and so on.
And then many teams are free to create useful stuff and write APIs around
them, with authorization offloaded to the first team.

As a I<consumer>, you will make API requests to the I<Resource Server>
signed with proof of auhorization from the I<Authorization Server>, the
I<Resource Server> will confirm authorization with the
I<Authorization Server>, and then the I<Resource Server> will do whatever it
was asked to do.

Organizing internal responsibilities in this manner makes it easier for many
independent teams in a large company to write public APIs.

=item client type

The I<service provider> internally tags each I<client> with a I<client type>
which tells it something about what environment it is in, and how it
interacts with the I<user>.  Are are the basic types listed in
L<RFC 6749|http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-2.1>:

=over 4

=item web application

Runs on a web server.  Is expected to keep secrets.  Likely to be appropriate
for a Perl I<client>.

=item user-agent-based application

JavaScript application running in a browser that wants to make AJAX calls.
Can't keep secrets.  Does not make sense for A Perl I<client>.

=item native application

Application installed on a I<user>'s machine.  Can't keep secrets.  Possibly
appropriate for a Perl I<client>.

=back

Of course all of this is up to the I<service provider>.  For example at the
time of this writing, Google documents no less than six I<client type>s at
L<https://developers.google.com/accounts/docs/OAuth2>, none of which have
been given the above names.  (They also call them "Scenarios" rather than
I<client type>.)  They rename the top two, split I<native application> into
two based on whether your application controls a browser, and add two new
ones.

=item flow

Your I<flow> is the sequence and methods of interactions that set up
authorization.  The I<flow> depends on your I<service provider> and
I<client type>.  For example the I<service provider> might redirect the
I<user> to a URL controlled by a web application, while instead for a native
application the user is told to cut and paste a code somewhere.

Despite I<flow> being more common terminology in OAuth 2, I<client type> is
more self-explanatory, so I've generally gone with that instead.

=item client_id

The I<client_id> is a public ID that tells the I<service provider> about the
I<client> that is accessing it.  That is, it says both who the I<consumer>
is, and what the I<client type> is.  Being public, the I<client_id> can be
shared with the I<user>.  The details of how this is assigned are between the
I<consumer> and the I<service provider>.

=item client_secret

The I<client_secret> is a somewhat private piece of information that the
I<consumer> can pass to the I<service provider> to prove that the request
really comes from the I<consumer>.  How much this is trusted, and how it is
used, will depend on the I<client type> and I<service provider>.

=item redirect_uri

The I<service provider> needs a way to tell the I<user> how to pass
information back to the I<consumer> in a secure way.  That is provided by the
I<redirect_uri> which can be anything from a C<https://...> URL that the
I<consumer> controls to an instruction that lets the I<service provider> know
that it should tell the I<user> to cut and paste some information.

It is up to the I<service provider> what values of are acceptable for the
I<redirect_uri>, and whether it is a piece of information that is remembered
or passed in during the authorization process.

=item state

The I<state> is an optional piece of information that can be created by the
I<consumer> then added to all requests as an extra piece of protection
against forgery.  (You are supposed to create a random piece of information
for each request, then check that you get it back.)  In the OAuth 2
specification it is optional, but recommended.  Depending on the combination
of your I<service provider> and I<client type>, it may be required.

=item scope

The I<scope> describes what permissions are to be granted.  To get multiple
permissions, you need to join the permissions requested with spaces.
Everything else is up to the I<service provider>.

Inside of the I<service provider>, what likely happens is that the team
which runs a given I<Resource Server> tells the team running the
I<Authorization Server> what permissions to their API should be called.  And
then the I<Authorization Server> can limit a given I<consumer> to just the
APIs that the I<user> authorized them for.

=item Authorization Endpoint

The I<Authorization Endpoint> is the URL provided by the I<service provider>
for the purpose of sending requests to authorize the I<consumer> to access
the I<user>'s account.  This is part of the I<Authorization Server>.

=item response_type

The I<response_type> tells the I<service provider> what kind of information
it is supposed to pass back.  I am not aware of a case where a Perl I<client>
could usefully use any value other than C<code>.  However there are I<flow>s
where other things happen.  For example the I<flow> for the
I<user-agent-based application> I<client type> uses a I<response_type> of
I<token>.

While the field is not very useful for Perl I<client>s, it is required in the
specification.  So you have to pass it.

=item authorization_url

This is the URL on the I<service provider>'s website that the I<user> goes to
in order to let the I<service provider> know what authorization is being
requested.

It is constructed as the I<Authorization Endpoint> with get parameters added
for the I<response_type>, I<client_id>, and optionally I<state>.  The
specification mentions both I<redirect_uri> and I<scope> but does not
actually mandate that they be accepted or required.  However they may be.
And, of course, a given service provider can add more parameters at will, and
require (or not) different things by I<client type>.

An example URL for Google complete with optional extensions is
L<https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth?scope=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.googleapis.com%2Fauth%2Fuserinfo.email+https%3A%2F%2Fwww.googleapis.com%2Fauth%2Fuserinfo.profile&state=%2Fprofile&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Foauth2-login-demo.appspot.com%2Fcode&response_type=code&client_id=812741506391.apps.googleusercontent.com&approval_prompt=force>

In L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> the C<authorization_url> method constructs this
URL.  If your request needs to include the I<state>, I<scope>, or any
I<service provider> specific parameter, you need to pass those as
parameters.  The others are usefully defaulted from the service provider
and object.

=item (authorization) code

If the I<response_type> is set to C<code> (which should be the case), then on
success the I<service provider> will generate a one use I<authorization code>
to give to the user to take back to the I<consumer>.  Depending on the
I<flow> this could happen with no effort on the part of the I<user>.  For
example the I<user> can be redirected to the I<redirect_uri> with the I<code>
passed as a get parameter.  The web server would then pick these up, finish
the handshake, and then redirect the user elsewhere.

In all interactions where it is passed it is simply called the I<code>.  But
it is described in one interaction as an I<authorization_code>.

=item Token Endpoint

The I<Token Endpoint> is the URL provided by the I<service provider>
for the purpose of sending requests from the I<consumer> to get tokens
allowing access to the I<user>'s account.

=item grant_type

The I<grant_type> is the type of grant you expected to get based on the
I<response_type> requested in the I<authorization_url>.  For a
I<response_type> of C<code> (which is almost certainly what will be used
with any I<consumer> written in Perl), the I<grant_type> has to be
C<authorization_code>.  If they were being consistent, then that would be
I<code> like it is everywhere else, but that's what the spec says.

We will later encounter the I<grant_type> C<refresh_token>.  The
specification includes potential requests that can be in a I<flow> that might
prove useful.   However you are only likely to encounter that if you are
subclassing L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2::ServiceProvider>.  In that case you will
hopefully discover the applicability and details of those I<grant_type>s from
the I<service provider>'s documentation.

=item Access Token Request

Once the I<consumer> has a I<code> the consumer can submit an
I<Access Token Request> by sending a POST request to the
I<Token Endpoint> with the I<grant_type>, I<code>, I<client_id>,
I<client_secret>, I<redirect_uri> and (if in the authorization code)
the I<state>.  Your I<service provider> can also require you to authenticate
in any further way that they please.  You will get back a JSON response.

An example request might look like this:

    POST /o/oauth2/token HTTP/1.1
    Host: accounts.google.com
    Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
    
    code=4/P7q7W91a-oMsCeLvIaQm6bTrgtp7&
    client_id=8819981768.apps.googleusercontent.com&
    client_secret={client_secret}&
    redirect_uri=https://oauth2-login-demo.appspot.com/code&
    grant_type=authorization_code

and the response if you're lucky will look something like:

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
    Cache-Control: no-store
    Pragma: no-cache
    
    {
      "access_token":"1/fFAGRNJru1FTz70BzhT3Zg",
      "expires_in":3920,
      "token_type":"Bearer",
      "refresh_token":"1/xEoDL4iW3cxlI7yDbSRFYNG01kVKM2C-259HOF2aQbI"
    }

or if you're unlucky, maybe like this:

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
    Cache-Control: no-store
    Pragma: no-cache
    
    {
      "error":"invalid_grant"
    }

Success is up to the I<service provider> which can decide not to give you
tokens for any reason that they want, including that you asked twice, they
think the I<user> might be compromised, they don't like the I<client>, or the
phase of the Moon.  (I am not aware of any I<service provider> that makes
failure depend on the phase of the Moon, but the others are not made up.)

The C<request_tokens> method of L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> will make this
request for you, read the JSON and create the token or tokens.  If you passed
in a C<save_tokens> callback in constructing your object, that will be
called for you to store the tokens.  On future API calls you can retrieve
that to skip the handshake if possible.

=item token_type

The I<token_type> is a case insensitive description of the type of token
that you could be given.  In theory there is a finite list of types that you
could encounter.  In practice I<service provider>s can add more at any time,
either intentionally or unintentionally by failing to correctly implement the
one that they claimed to have created.

See L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2::AccessToken> for advice on how to add support for
a new or incorrectly implemented I<token_type>.

=item expires_in

The number of seconds until you will need a new token because the old one
should have expired.  L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> provides the C<should_refresh>
method to let you know when you need that new token.  (It actually starts
returning true slightly early to avoid problems if clocks are not
synchronized, or you begin a series of operations.)

=item access_token

An I<access_token> is a temporary token that gives the I<consumer> access to
the I<user>'s data in the I<service provider>'s system.  In the above
response the C<access_token> is the value of the token, C<expires_in> is the
number of seconds it is good for in theory (practice tends to be close but
not always exact), and C<token_type> specifies how it is supposed to be used.

Once the authorization handshake is completed, if the I<access_token> has a
supported I<token_type>. then L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> will automatically sign
any requests for you.

=item Bearer token

If the I<token_type> is C<bearer> (case insensitive), then you should have a
I<bearer token> as described by
L<RFC 6750|http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6750>.  For as long as the token is
good, any request signed with it is authorized.  Signing is as simple as
sending an https request with a header of:

    Authorization: Bearer 1/fFAGRNJru1FTz70BzhT3Zg

You can also sign by passing C<access_token=...> as a post or get parameter,
though the specification recommends against using a get parameter.  If you
are using L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2>, then it is signed with the header.

=item refresh_token

The above example also included a I<refresh_token>.  If you were given one,
you can use it later to ask for a refreshed I<access_token>.  Whether you get
one is up to your I<service provider>, who is likely to decide that based on
your I<client_type>.

=item Refresh Access Token

If you have a I<refresh_token>, you can at any time send a
I<Refresh Access Token> request.  This is a POST to the I<Token Endpoint>
with the I<refresh_token>, I<client_id> and I<client_secret> arguments.  You
also have to send a I<grant_type> of C<refresh_token>.

Thus in the above case we'd send

    POST /o/oauth2/token HTTP/1.1
    Host: accounts.google.com
    Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
    
    refresh_token=1/xEoDL4iW3cxlI7yDbSRFYNG01kVKM2C-259HOF2aQbI&
    client_id=8819981768.apps.googleusercontent.com&
    client_secret={client_secret}&
    grant_type=refresh_token

and if lucky could get a response like

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
    Cache-Control: no-store
    Pragma: no-cache
    
    {
      "access_token":"ya29.AHES6ZSiArSow0zeKokajrri5gMBpGc6Sq",
      "expires_in":3600,
      "token_type":"Bearer",
    }

and if unlucky could get an error as before.

In L<LWP::Authen::OAuth2> this request is made for you transparently behind
the scenes if possible.  If you're curious when, look in the source for the
C<refresh_access_token> method.  There are also optional callbacks that you
can pass to let you save the tokens, or hijack the refresh method for your
own purposes.  (Such as making sure that only one process tries to refresh
tokens even though many are accessing it.)

But note that not all I<flow>s offer a I<refresh_token>.  If you're on one
of those I<flow>s then you need to send the I<user> back to the
I<service provider> for authorization renewal.  From the I<user>'s point of
view this is likely to be painless because it will be done with transparent
redirects.  But the I<consumer> needs to be aware of it.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Ben Tilly, C<< <btilly at gmail.com> >>

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Thanks to L<Rent.com|http://www.rent.com> for their generous support in
letting me develop and release this module.  My thanks also to Keith Cascio
C<< <cascio@helminthist.net> >> for very helpful feedback on early drafts.
