package Log::ger::Manual::FAQ;

# DATE
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: FAQ on Log::ger

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Log::ger::Manual::FAQ - FAQ on Log::ger

=head1 VERSION

version 0.015001

=head1 GENERAL

=head2 How to use OO style?

The default in Log::ger is to use procedural style:

 use Log::ger;

 log_warn("blah");
 if (log_is_debug()) {
     log_debug("Format: %s %s", "blah ...", {data=>'structure'});
 }

However, you can also use objects:

 use Log::ger (); # don't initialize and export logger subroutines
 my $log = Log::ger->get_logger;
 $log->warn("blah");
 if ($log->is_debug) {
     $log->debug("Format: %s %s", "blah ...", {data=>'structure'});
 }

=head2 How to create multiple loggers?

For example, in L<Log::Any>:

 my $log = Log::Any->get_logger;
 my $log_dump = Log::Any->get_logger(category => "dump"); # to dump contents

 $log->debugf("Headers is: %s", $http_res->{headers});
 $log_dump->debug($http_res->{content});

in Log::ger:

 # instead of installing to package, we setup objects (or hashes) for the
 # secondary loggers
 my $log_dump = Log::ger->get_logger(category => "dump");

 log_debug("Headers is: %s", $http_res->{headers});
 $log_dump->debug($http_res->{content});

=head1 OUTPUT

=head2 How to send logs to several outputs?

Use L<Log::ger::Output::Composite>, which can log to multiple outputs as well as
multiple output of the same type (e.g. two or more
L<File|Log::ger::Output::File>'s).

=head2 How to send trace/debug messages to screen, but warnings/errors to file?

Using L<Log::ger::Output::Composite>'s per-output level:

 Log::ger::Output Composite => (
     Screen => {
         level => ['trace', 'debug'],
     },
     File => {
         conf => { path=>'/path/to/file.log' },
         level => ['warn', 'error'],
     },
 );

=head2 How to send trace/debug messages to a file, but warnings/errors to another file?

Using L<Log::ger::Output::Composite>'s per-output level:

 Log::ger::Output Composite => (
     File => [
         {
             conf => { path=>'file1.log' },
             level => ['trace', 'debug'],
         },
         {
             conf => { path=>'file2.log' },
             level => ['warn', 'error'],
         },
     ],
 );

=head2 How to filter by category?

Using L<Log::ger::Output::Composite>.

TODO example.

=head2 How to log warnings/die messages?

TODO

=head1 LEVEL

=head2 How to use custom levels?

One way:

 use Log::ger ();
 BEGIN {
     our %Log::ger::Levels = (
         critical => 1,
         error    => 2,
         warning  => 3,
         info     => 4,
         extra    => 5,
     );
     our %Log::ger::Level_Aliases = (
         warn     => 3,
         verbose  => 4,
     );

Do this before initializing any package with C<use Log::ger>. The above example
will create these logging routines: C<log_critical>, C<log_error>,
C<log_warning>, C<log_info>, C<log_extra>. The aliases won't get the logging
routines but C<Log::ger::Util::numeric_level> will recognize them.

=head1 FORMAT & LAYOUT

=head2 How to do sprintf-style formatting?

By default, the Log::ger formatter already does sprintf-style formatting:

 log_warn("Format %s %s", "blah ...", {data=>'structure'});

If there is only one argument, no formatting is done.

 log_warn("blah ...");

=head2 Why doesn't Log::ger log multiple arguments?

Logging multiple arguments is not supported by the default formatter because by
default Log::ger adopts sprintf style:

 log_warn("blah ...", "more blah ...");

Either join the arguments first, use sprintf style, or use some of the other
formatters that support this, e.g. L<Log::ger::Like::LogAny>.

=head2 How to use deferred calculation of arguments?

Use a formatter like L<Log::ger::Format::Block>, or
L<Log::ger::Format::Flogger>, or develop your own formatter to do what you want.

You can also do this:

 if (log_is_trace()) {
     log_trace("Format %s", $foo->something_that_is_expensive_to_calculate);
 }

=head2 How to dump data structures?

The default formatter already dumps data structures:

 log_warn("Format %s %s", "blah ...", {data=>'structure'});

=head2 How to log raw data structure?

You can use a formatter like L<Log::ger::Format::None> which will prevent your
log message from being stringified. To output this to destination, combine this
with a layout plugin like L<Log::ger::Layout::JSON> or
L<Log::ger::Layout::LTSV>. Or perhaps write your own output module that accepts
raw data structure instead of formatted string and send it somewhere.

=head2 How to do custom formatting?

For example, a la L<Log::Contextual>:

 log_warn { 'The number of stuffs is: ' . $obj->stuffs_count };

See L<Log::ger::Format::Block> for an example.

=head2 How to add timestamps?

Use a layouter, e.g. L<Log::ger::Layout::Pattern>.

=head2 How to use microsecond in timestamps?

TODO

=head2 How to redact sensitive information?

TODO

=head1 TARGETS

=head2 How to customize format/layout, output, plugin on a per-target basis?

To use a plugin only for the current package:

 package MyPackage;

 use Log::ger::Plugin;
 Log::ger::Plugin->set_for_current_package(
     'PluginName',
     conf1 => ..., ...);
 use Log::ger;

Do the same thing for format (using L<Log::ger::Format>), layout (using
L<Log::ger::Layout>), or output (using L<Log::ger::Output>).

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017 by perlancar@cpan.org.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
