package Log::ger::Manual::ForLogAny;

# DATE
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Log::ger for Log::Any users

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Log::ger::Manual::ForLogAny - Log::ger for Log::Any users

=head1 VERSION

version 0.012

=head1 WHY LOG::ANY

Log::Any is one of the first logging libraries on CPAN which promotes separation
of producers and consumers. This means, instead of having to configure logging
output in your module like this:

 package MyLib;
 use Log::SomeLib;

 my $log = Log::SomeLib->new(
     output => ...,
     level => ...,
 );

 sub mymethod {
     $log->warn("blah ...");
 }

you just log:

 package MyLibrary;
 use Log::Any '$log';

 sub mymethod {
     $log->warn("blah ...");
 }

and the configuration of outputs and leels is done on the application side.

=head1 WHY LOG::GER OVER LOG::ANY

Log::ger can be used in procedural style in addition to OO style. Aside from
preference, this gives the benefit of being able to optimize away unneeded
logging statements to avoid runtime overhead (see L<Log::ger::Plugin::OptAway>).
A procedural wrapper for Log::Any could also be written to accomplish the same,
but this is native in Log::ger.

Log::ger has a smaller startup overhead compared to Log::Any. Log::Any used to
be very light also (startup overhead under 1ms) until version 0.15.

Log::ger gives you customizable levels and routine names.

Log::ger allows you to log in a custom format, e.g. using block a la
L<Log::Contextual>, raw data structure as JSON, etc.

=head1 MIGRATING

To ease migrating, L<Log::ger::Like::LogAny> is provided. You can change this
line in your code:

 use Log::Any;

into:

 use Log::ger::Like::LogAny;

and this:

 my $log = Log::Any->get_logger;

into:

 my $log = Log::Any::Like::LogAny->get_logger;

and this:

 use Log::Any '$log';

into:

 use Log::ger::Like::LogAny '$log';

=head1 FAQ

=head2 In my application, I have some modules using Log::Any and some using Log::ger. I want to consume logs using Log::Any, how do I do that?

Install L<Log::ger::Output::LogAny> then in your application:

 use Log::ger::Output 'LogAny';

This will send logs produced via Log::ger to Log::Any.

=head2 In my application, I have some modules using Log::Any and some using Log::ger. I want to consume logs using Log::ger, how do I do that?

Install L<Log::Any::Adapter::LogGer> then in your application:

 use Log::Any::Adapter 'LogGer';

This will send logs produced via Log::Any to Log::ger.

=head2 How to set an output "lexically", like with the 'lexically' option in Log::Any::Adapter?

In Log::Any, this is a way to set an adapter temporarily:

 {
     Log::Any::Adapter->set({lexically => \my $lex}, 'Name', ...);
     ...
 } # when $lex goes out of scope, the adapter setting is removed

One way to do this in Log::ger:

 my $saved = Log::ger::Util::save_hooks('create_logml_routine'); # or create_log_routine
 Log::ger::Output->set('Name', ...);
 ...
 Log::ger::Util::restore_hooks('create_logml_routine', $saved);

A nicer interface may be provided in the future.

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017 by perlancar@cpan.org.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
