package Log::ger::Manual::Internals;

# DATE
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Log::ger internals

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Log::ger::Manual::Internals - Log::ger internals

=head1 VERSION

version 0.015001

=head1 DESCRIPTION

When an importer package does this:

 use Log::ger;

Basically all Log::ger does is construct logging routines and install them to
importer's package (target), e.g. C<log_warn>, C<log_debug>, C<log_is_debug> and
so on. Log::ger also records the target name. When a reinit is requested (e.g.
due to a change of log level or outputs), Log::ger will again construct logging
routines and install them to each target, replacing the old ones.

In addition to installing routines to a package, Log::ger can also target a hash
or an object (which is basically the same as installing to a package, but the
routines will expect to be called as object methods instead of plain
subroutines, i.e. they expect the first argument to be the object).

=head1 GLOSSARY

=head2 Formatter

A routine that takes arguments supplied by the user to the logger routine (e.g.
C<< log_warn("blah %s", $args, ...) >> and converts it to the message (usually
string) that is sent to the output (or the layouter, if there is one).

=head2 Output

=head2 Log routine

=head2 Is routine

=head2 Layouter

A routine that takes the formatted message (usually a string) and converts it to
the final message string that is sent to output.

=head2 Plugin

A Perl module that supplies hooks.

=head2 Target

=head2 Phase

=head2 Hook

=head2 Hook priority

=head2 Init

The process of constructing logger routines and installing them to targets. See
L</"INIT"> for more details about the process.

=head2 Logger routine

=head2 Level

=head2 Composite output

=head2 Category

=head2 Category level

=head1 HOOKS AND PLUGINS

Hooks are how Log::ger provides its flexibility. At various times (phases),
Log::ger will turn to running hooks to get some behavior or result. For example
when wanting to construct a logging routine or formatting routine or
before/after installing logging routines. Plugins, which are modules in the
Log::ger::{Plugin,Output,Format,Filter,...} namespaces, can supply these hooks.

Hooks are stored in the C<%Global_Hooks> variable, where the key is phase name
and the value an array of hook records. Each hook record is in the form of:

 [$key, $prio, $coderef]

where C<$key> is (plugin) package name, C<$prio> is a number between 0-100 (the
lower the number, the higher the priority and the earlier it is run),
C<$coderef> is the actual hook routine. A plugin is supposed to put only at most
one hook per phase.

A hook routine is passed a hash argument and is expected to return an array:

 [$result, $flow_control, ...]

By default each hook will be executed in order of its priority. C<$flow_control>
can be set to 1 by a hook to stop immediately after this hook instead of
continuing to the next. Some phases will nevertheless stop after the first hook
that returns non-undef C<$result>. A hook that returns undef is effectively
declining and causing Log::ger to move to the next hook in the chain.

Some phases might return extra elements.

Aguments received by hook: C<target> (str, can be C<package> if installing to a
package, or C<hash> or C<object>), C<target_arg> (str, when C<target> is
C<package>, will be the package name; when C<target> is C<hash> will be the
hash; when C<target> is C<object> will be the object), C<init_args> (hash,
arguments passed to Log::ger when importing, e.g. C<< {category =>
'My::Package'} >>; it also serves as a per-target stash which survives reinit,
by convention you can put stuffs here under keys that start with C<_>). In some
phases, hook will receive more arguments (see phase documentation below).

Available phases:

=over

=item * create_formatter

Used to construct formatter routine, which will be called with arguments from
the user when she calls the logging routines.

It should return:

 [\&formatter, $flow_control, $formatter_name]

C<$formatter_name> is optional and defaults to C<default>, which is the default
formatter used for all logging routines.

=item * create_layouter

Used to construct layouter routine, which will be called with arguments C<<
($fmsg, \%init_args, $lnum, $lname) >> where C<$fmsg> is formatted message from
the formatter, C<%init_args> are arguments given to C<< Log::ger->get_logger >>
or to Log::ger's import(), C<$lnum> is numeric level, C<$lname> is string level.

=item * create_routine_names

Used to construct routine names. Hook must return this (all keys are optional):

 [{
   log_subs      => [ [NAME, STR_LEVEL, FMT_NAME], ... ],
   log_methods   => [ [NAME, STR_LEVEL, FMT_NAME], ... ],

   is_subs       => [ [NAME, STR_LEVEL, FMT_NAME], ... ],
   is_methods    => [ [NAME, STR_LEVEL, FMT_NAME], ... ],

   logml_subs    => [ [NAME, undef    , FMT_NAME], ... ],
   logml_methods => [ [NAME, undef    , FMT_NAME], ... ],
 }, ...]

Where C<log_subs> and C<log_methods> are names of per-level log routines,
C<is_subs> an C<is_methods> are names of per-level level detection routines,
C<logml_subs> and C<logml_methods> are names of multiple-level log routines.

C<FMT_NAME> is optional and defaults to C<default> (the default formatter
routine).

=item * create_log_routine

Used to create per-level "log_I<level>" routines which will be called with C<<
(\%init_args, $msg) >> arguments. Called for each routine specified in the
C<log_subs> (or C<log_methods>) in the routine names (see documentation on
C<create_routine_names> phase). Extra arguments received by hook: C<name>
(routine name), C<level> (numeric level), C<str_level>.

=item * create_is_routine

Used to create per-level "log_is_I<level>" routines. Called for each routine
specified in the C<is_subs> (or C<is_methods>) in the routine names (see
documentation on C<create_routine_names> phase). Extra Arguments received by
hooks: C<name> (routine name), C<level> (numeric level), C<str_level>.

=item * create_logml_routine

Used to create multiple-level "log" routines which will be called with C<<
(\%init_args, $level, $msg) >> arguments. Called for each routine specified in
the C<logml_subs> (or C<logml_methods>) in the routine names (see documentation
on C<create_routine_names> phase). Extra arguments received by hooks: C<name>
(routine name).

=item * before_install_routines

Extra arguments received by hooks: C<routines> (array of routines to install),
C<formatters> (hashref of formatter routines, if any), C<layouter> (layouter
routine, if any).

C<routine> is in the form of:

 [
   [$coderef, $name, $numlevel, $type],
   ...
 ]

Where C<$type> is either C<log_sub>, C<log_method>, C<logml_sub>,
C<logml_method>, C<is_sub>, C<is_method>.

=item * after_install_routines

Extra arguments received by hooks: C<routines>.

=back

Aside from the global hooks, there are also per-target hooks, which are stored
in C<%Per_Package_Hooks>, C<%Per_Hash_Hooks>, C<%Per_Object_Hooks>.

=head1 INIT

This section describes what C<init_target()>, which is the routine used to
initialize a target, does.

First, hooks in the C<create_formatter> phase are run. This will collect one or
more formatters. In the most common case, only the C<default> formatter will be
constructed. In some cases, like L<Log::ger::Like::LogAny>, we want to use
different formatters for method like C<warn> and C<debug> (arguments simply
joined by space) and for methods like C<warnf> and C<debugf> (sprintf-style with
data structure dumping, the default formatter used by Log::ger).

Next, hooks in the C<create_layouter> phase are run. This will create a layouter
(multiple layouters I<might> be supported in the future, but for now we only use
one layouter per target).

Next, hooks in the C<create_routine_names> phase are run. This will produce a
list of subroutine/method names to create, along with what formatter to use for
each (the default is C<default>). Plugins that want to mimic other interfaces
like L<Log::ger::Like::LogAny> or L<Log::ger::Like::Log4perl> will want to add
their hook here to provide names other than Log::ger's default. For example,
Log4perl has uppercase subroutine names like C<WARN> or C<DEBUG>.

There are two types of routines that are created, logging routines (like
C<log_warn>, C<log_debug>) and level detection routines, also called the "is"
routines (like C<log_is_warn>, C<log_is_debug>). Logging routines in turn can be
reguler, per-level routines or multilevel routines that accept numeric level as
the first argument.

Next, the logger routines are created by running the C<create_log_routine> and
C<create_logml_routine> hooks, for each log level. The code from the hooks
(usually from output plugins) are then combined with the formatter and layouter
to form the final routine ready to be installed.

Likewise, the log level detection routines are created by running the
C<create_is_routine> hooks for each log level.

Before installing the routines, we give a chance to plugins to do stuffs in the
C<before_install_routines> phase. Some plugins use this phase to, e.g. fixup
prototypes.

After installing the routines, we likewise give a chance to plugins to do stuffs
in the C<after_install_routines> phase. Some plugins like
L<Log::ger::Plugin::OptAway> this phase to actually replace the routines that
are not needed with a no-op.

=head1 TARGETS

Log::ger can install logger routines to a package, or an object (which is
similar to installing to a package), or a hash (usually for testing).

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017 by perlancar@cpan.org.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
