package Perinci::CmdLine::Manual::HowTo::Completion; # just to make podweaver happy

# AUTHORITY
# DATE
our $DIST = 'Perinci-CmdLine'; # DIST
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: How-to guides related to completion

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Perinci::CmdLine::Manual::HowTo::Completion - How-to guides related to completion

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 2.000.2 of Perinci::CmdLine::Manual::HowTo::Completion (from Perl distribution Perinci-CmdLine), released on 2026-03-30.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

In a Perinci::CmdLine-based CLI program, shell tab completion is mostly the
issue of completing function arguments. A sample Rinci function metadata:

 {
   v => 1.1,
   summary => 'A foo utility',
   args => {
     bar => { ... },
     baz => { ... },
   }
 }

Function argument names are simple, they are just taken from list of function
arguments in the Rinci function metadata:

 % myprog --ba<tab>
 bar      baz

Completing function argument values is where the meat is. Completion can come
from simple sources like schema:

 bar => { schema => ['str', in => ['one', 'two', 'three']], ... }

 % myprog --bar <tab>
 one      three        two

or more complex sources.

=head2 Completion from argument schema

TODO

=head2 Completion from configuration

TODO

=head2 Completion from custom completion routine

TODO

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Perinci-CmdLine>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Perinci-CmdLine>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Log::ger>

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTING


To contribute, you can send patches by email/via RT, or send pull requests on
GitHub.

Most of the time, you don't need to build the distribution yourself. You can
simply modify the code, then test via:

 % prove -l

If you want to build the distribution (e.g. to try to install it locally on your
system), you can install L<Dist::Zilla>,
L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>,
L<Pod::Weaver::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>, and sometimes one or two other
Dist::Zilla- and/or Pod::Weaver plugins. Any additional steps required beyond
that are considered a bug and can be reported to me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2026 by perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Perinci-CmdLine>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
