package Perinci::CmdLine::Manual::HowTo::Debugging; # just to make podweaver happy

# AUTHORITY
# DATE
our $DIST = 'Perinci-CmdLine'; # DIST
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: How-to guides related to debugging

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Perinci::CmdLine::Manual::HowTo::Debugging - How-to guides related to debugging

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 2.000.1 of Perinci::CmdLine::Manual::HowTo::Debugging (from Perl distribution Perinci-CmdLine), released on 2024-11-12.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

If you encounter issues with Perinci::CmdLine, you can try these things to aid
with debugging:

B<Increase log level.> Perinci::CmdLine uses L<Log::ger>. If your command-line
object is instantiated with C<log> attribute set to true, you just need to
specify C<--verbose>, C<--debug>, or C<--trace> command-line options to see more
logging statements:

 % your-cli --verbose ...
 % your-cli --debug ...
 % your-cli --trace ...
 % your-cli --log-level trace ... ;# ditto

If your command-line object is not instantiated with C<log> attribute set to
true, you can enable logging with:

 % PERL5OPT=-MLog::ger::Screen LOG_LEVEL=info your-cli ...
 % PERL5OPT=-MLog::ger::Screen DEBUG=1 your-cli ...
 % PERL5OPT=-MLog::ger::Screen TRACE=1 your-cli ...

B<Dump parsed arguments, internal data structures.> If seeing log statements
does not give clue, you can try dumping various data structures. This can be
done with plugins. For example, to dump parsed command-line arguments after
validation and then exit, you can use the following command (setting log level
to trace is helpful to see the program flow and at what points the plugins are
triggered):

 % PERINCI_CMDLINE_PLUGINS=-DumpArgs,-Exit@after_validate_args your-cli --trace ...

B<Logging other components.> See L<Log::ger::For::LWP>,
L<Log::ger::For::HTTP::Tiny>, L<Log::ger::For::DBI>, L<Log::ger::DBI::Query>.

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Perinci-CmdLine>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Perinci-CmdLine>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Log::ger>

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTING


To contribute, you can send patches by email/via RT, or send pull requests on
GitHub.

Most of the time, you don't need to build the distribution yourself. You can
simply modify the code, then test via:

 % prove -l

If you want to build the distribution (e.g. to try to install it locally on your
system), you can install L<Dist::Zilla>,
L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>,
L<Pod::Weaver::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>, and sometimes one or two other
Dist::Zilla- and/or Pod::Weaver plugins. Any additional steps required beyond
that are considered a bug and can be reported to me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2024 by perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Perinci-CmdLine>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
