# --8<--8<--8<--8<--
#
# Copyright (C) 2006 Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
#
# This file is part of CIAO-Lib-Param
#
# CIAO-Lib-Param is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
# modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
# as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
# of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#
# CIAO-Lib-Param is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
# but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
# GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# along with this program; if not, write to the 
#       Free Software Foundation, Inc. 
#       51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor
#       Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA
#
# -->8-->8-->8-->8--

=head1 NAME

CIAO::Lib::Param::Error - package error information for CIAO::Lib::Param

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  eval { 
    ... calls to CIAO::Lib::Param ...
  };
  if ( my $e = $@ )
  {
     .. manipulations of $e ..
  }


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Depending upon how an error is generated, the cxcparam library returns
error information which contains multiple fields.  The underlying
library returns errors in two fashions:

=over

=item 1

returning an integer error code

=item 2

generating a text message and bailing out

=back

In the second case, the error should be considered fatal, as
the library's data structures are left in an indeterminate state.

In order to simplify error interactions, the Perl interface always
throws an exception via croak upon error.  For simple applications,
not catching the exception (by doing nothing) will cause the
application to terminate.

For more fine-grained error handling, more information is required.
To that end, CIAO::Lib::Param throws a CIAO::Lib::Param::Error object,
which resolves to a printable string when used in the appropriate
context.  Otherwise, it can be used to obtain more information about
the error.

=head2 Methods

=over

=item error

This is the message printed when the object is used in a scalar
context.  It constructed either from C<errstr> or from C<errmsg>, if
the latter is defined.

=item errno

This is a cxcparam standard error code.  See the cxcparam source
code for more information on what the error codes mean.

=item errstr

This is the standard description associated with the cxcparam errors.

=item errmsg

If the cxcparam library reported an error via the second path
mentioned above, this will return the generated message, else it
returns undef.  This method can be used to determine if the
application should attempt to recover from an error.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

CIAO::Lib::Param

=head1 AUTHOR

Diab Jerius, E<lt>djerius@cpanE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2005 by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

This code is released under the GNU General Public License.  You may
find a copy at <http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html>.

=cut

