# --8<--8<--8<--8<--
#
# Copyright (C) 2006 Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
#
# This file is part of CIAO-Lib-Param
#
# CIAO-Lib-Param is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
# modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
# as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
# of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#
# CIAO-Lib-Param is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
# but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
# GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# along with this program; if not, write to the 
#       Free Software Foundation, Inc. 
#       51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor
#       Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA
#
# -->8-->8-->8-->8--

=head1 NAME

CIAO::Lib::Param::Match - handle a list of matched parameters

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use CIAO::Lib::Param;

  $pf = CIAO::Lib::Param->new( $filename );
  $pmatch = $pf->match( $template );

  printf "number of matched parameters: %d\n", $pmatch->length;
  while( my $pname = $pmatch->next ) { print "$pname\n" };

  # do it all over again
  $pmatch->rewind;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These routines manipulate the CIAO::Lib::Param::Match object returned
by the CIAO::Lib::Param B<match()> method.


=head2 Methods

=over

=item length

   $len = $pmatch->length;

returns the number of matched parameters.

=item next

   $pname = $pmatch->next;

returns the name of the next parameter in the list.  It returns
B<undef> if at the end of the list.


=item rewind

   $pmatch->rewind;

Reset the list so that the next call to B<next()> will return the
first element of the list.


=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

CIAO::Lib::Param.

=head1 AUTHOR

Diab Jerius, E<lt>djerius@cpanE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2005 by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

This code is released under the GNU General Public License.  You may
find a copy at <http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html>.

=cut
