# PODNAME: Iterator::Flex::Manual::Alien
# ABSTRACT: Interfacing with non- Iterator::Flex things.

__END__

=pod

=for :stopwords Diab Jerius Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

=head1 NAME

Iterator::Flex::Manual::Alien - Interfacing with non- Iterator::Flex things.

=head1 VERSION

version 0.19

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Iterator::Flex> provides transparent access to iterators available
on CPAN (see L<Iterator::Flex::Manual::PriorArt>), as well as things
which are L<iterable|Iterator::Flex::Manual::Glossary/iterable thing>,
such as arrays (or objects which act like arrays), or globrefs (or
objects which act like them), or objects which provide iterator
methods.

For these, L<Iterator::Flex::Common/iter> is the
family-friendly front end; L<under the hood|/UNDER THE HOOD>
L<Iterator::Flex::Factory/construct_from_iterable> does the heavy
lifting.

There's also L<Iterator::Flex::ArrayLike>, which interfaces
to objects which can provide a length and an element accessor.

=head1 INTERNALS

=head1 UNDER THE HOOD

=head2 Other iterators

Interfacing is accomplished by creating a proxy iterator which translates

=over

=item 1

Invocation

=item 2

Exhaustion signalling

=back

and forwards other capability invocations to the source iterator.

=head2 Invocation

Some iterators are objects which are invoked via a method call, others
are code references which can be called directly. L<Iterator::Flex> always
works with code references, so in the former case, a closure must be
created.

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Bugs

Please report any bugs or feature requests to bug-iterator-flex@rt.cpan.org  or through the web interface at: L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Iterator-Flex>

=head2 Source

Source is available at

  https://gitlab.com/djerius/iterator-flex

and may be cloned from

  https://gitlab.com/djerius/iterator-flex.git

=head1 SEE ALSO

Please see those modules/websites for more information related to this module.

=over 4

=item *

L<Iterator::Flex|Iterator::Flex>

=item *

L<Iterator::Flex::Manual|Iterator::Flex::Manual>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Diab Jerius <djerius@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2018 by Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The GNU General Public License, Version 3, June 2007

=cut
