# PODNAME: Iterator::Flex::Manual::Basics
# ABSTRACT: Iterator Basics

__END__

=pod

=for :stopwords Diab Jerius Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

=head1 NAME

Iterator::Flex::Manual::Basics - Iterator Basics

=head1 VERSION

version 0.19

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Introduction

An iterator is something which encapsulates a source of data and
parcels it out one chunk at a time. Iterators usually need to keep track
of the state of the data stream and which chunk they should next return.

For example, imagine iterating through an array, returning one element
at a time.  The state required would be the array and the index
of the next element to return.   Here's a simple iterator which
uses a hash to keep track of state

  sub iterate ( $state ) {
     my $array = $state->{array};
     return $state{index} > $#$array ? undef : $array->[$state{index}++];
  }

We could use this via:

   my %state  = ( array => [ 0.. 20 ], index => 0 );

  while ( defined( my $value = iterate( \%state ) ) ) {
    say $value;
  }

This illustrates the three typical
L<phases|Iterator::Flex::Manual::Overview/Iterator lifecycle> of an
iterator:

=over

=item 1

L<Initialized|/Iterator::Flex::Manual::Overview/Initialized State>:
The iterator's state has been set up.

=item 2

L<Iteration|/Iterator::Flex::Manual::Overview/Iteration State>: The
iterator has returned at least one element of data, but may not know
if there are more.

=item 3

L<Exhaustion|/Iterator::Flex::Manual::Overview/Exhaustion State>: The iterator has definitely run out of data.

=back

(There's a fourth state, L<Error|/Iterator::Flex::Manual::Overview/Error State>.)

=head2 Returning Data and Signaling Exhaustion or Error

=head3 Exhaustion

Exhaustion is traditionally signaled via:

=over

=item 1

Returning a I<sentinel> value;

=item 2

Throwing an exception.

=item 3

Setting a Boolean predicate in a multi-valued return, e.g.

 { value => $value, success => $bool }

=back

There's no right way to do it, just different trade-offs; see
L<Iterator::Flex::Manual::PriorArt> for how other languages and Perl
modules handle it.

Returning a sentinel value is often good enough, but only if that
value doesn't exist in your data stream.  In our example iterator, it
returns C<undef> when it has exhausted the data source.  However,
imagine that the array contains temperature measurements taken at
uniform intervals; an C<undef> value may indicate that there was a
problem taking a measurement (similar to how one would use C<null> in
a database), e.g.

    my @Temp = ( 22, 23.2, undef, 24, ... );

The iterator itself happily keeps going until it runs out of data, but
when it returns the C<undef> value, our example code above interprets it as
the iterator signaling exhaustion and will stop querying the iterator.
Obviously that's wrong.

One option is to use a value that knowingly can't occur. If your
temperature is measured in Kelvin, which is always positive, a
negative value can be a sentinel.

L<Iterator::Flex> iterators support returning a user defined sentinel
or throwing an exception, based on the caller's needs.

=head3 Error

Similar issues arise when the iterator must signal an error.  For
example, if the iterator retrieves data from a database and there is a
connection issue, the client code must be alerted. Most
implementations (language or Perl modules) don't provide an explicit
specification of how to handle this.

L<Iterator::Flex> currently supports throwing an exception on error.

=head2 Capabilities

Apart from state, an iterator is mostly defined by its capabilities.
The only one required is L</next>, which retrieves the next value in
the data stream.

There are a limited set of additional capabilities which are not
appropriate to all data sources or iterators, so they are optional.

These include the capability to return the previous value (C<prev>),
return the current value without advancement (C<current>), rewind
the iterator (C<rewind>), and others. Some capabilities can be
emulated by using an iterator L<adapter|/Adapters>.  The supported
capabilities are documented in L<Iterator::Flex::Manual::Overview>.

=head2 Generators

An I<iterator generator> creates an iterator from a data source, which
may be real (such as a data structure in memory, a database, etc.), or
virtual (such as a sequence of numbers). L<Iterator::Flex> provides
iterator generators via convenience wrappers and classes for:
arrays (L<iarray|/Iterator::Flex::Common/iarray>,
L<Iterator::Flex::Array>), numeric sequences
(L<iseq|/Iterator::Flex::Common/iseq>, L<Iterator::Flex::Sequence>),
array like objects (L<Iterator::Flex::ArrayLike>).

For others, writing an iterator is straightforward; see
L<Iterator::Flex::Manual::Authoring>.

=head2 Adapters

An I<iterator adapter> acts as a filter or modifier on the output of another iterator.
Applying an adapter to an iterator results in another iterator, which can be used as
input to another adapter.

L<Iterator::Flex> provides adapters both via convenience wrappers and
classes for

=over

=item grep

L<igrep|/Iterator::Flex::Common/igrep>, L<Iterator::Flex::Grep>

=item map

L<imap|/Iterator::Flex::Common/imap>, L<Iterator::Flex::Map>

=item cycle

L<icycle|/Iterator::Flex::Common/icycle>, L<Iterator::Flex::Cycle>

=item Cartesian product

L<iproduct|/Iterator::Flex::Common/iproduct>,
L<Iterator::Flex::Product>

=item Caching/Buffering

L<icache|/Iterator::Flex::Common/icache>, L<Iterator::Flex::Cache>

=item Continuous Serialization

L<ifreeze|/Iterator::Flex::Common/ifreeze>, L<Iterator::Flex::Freeze>

=back

=head3 Alien Wrappers

There are a number of existing iterator packages on CPAN (see
L<Iterator::Flex::Manual::PriorArt>).  L<Iterator::Flex> can wrap
those iterators so that they can be used within the L<Iterator::Flex>
framework.  See L<Iterator::Flex::Manual::Alien>.

=head1 INTERNALS

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Bugs

Please report any bugs or feature requests to bug-iterator-flex@rt.cpan.org  or through the web interface at: L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Iterator-Flex>

=head2 Source

Source is available at

  https://gitlab.com/djerius/iterator-flex

and may be cloned from

  https://gitlab.com/djerius/iterator-flex.git

=head1 SEE ALSO

Please see those modules/websites for more information related to this module.

=over 4

=item *

L<Iterator::Flex|Iterator::Flex>

=item *

L<Iterator::Flex::Manual|Iterator::Flex::Manual>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Diab Jerius <djerius@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2018 by Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The GNU General Public License, Version 3, June 2007

=cut
