# PODNAME: Iterator::Flex::Manual::Glossary
# ABSTRACT: Glossary

__END__

=pod

=for :stopwords Diab Jerius Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

=head1 NAME

Iterator::Flex::Manual::Glossary - Glossary

=head1 VERSION

version 0.19

=head1 INTERNALS

=head1 NAME

Iterator::Flex::Manual::Glossary

=head1 GLOSSARY

=head2 I<iterable object>

An I<iterable object> is an object which can be wrapped by an L<Iterator::Flex::Base> based iterator,
and which has one or more of the following:

=over

=item *

C<__iter__> or C<iter> methods

=item *

C<__next__> or C<next> methods

=item *

an overloaded C<< <> >> operator

These should return the next item.

=item *

an overloaded C<< &{} >> operator

This should return a code reference which returns the next item.  The coderef
will be called as

  $next = $coderef->( $obj )

=item *

an overloaded C<< @{} >> operator

This should return a code reference which returns an array reference.   The coderef
will be called as

  $next = $coderef->( $obj )

=back

Additionally, if the object has the following methods, they are used
to implement the L<prev|Iterator::Flex::Manual::Overview/prev> and  L<current|Iterator::Flex::Manual::Overview/current> capabilities.

=over

=item *

C<__prev__> or C<prev>

=item *

C<__current__> or C<current>

=back

=head2 I<iterable thing>

An I<iterable thing> is an entity which can be wrapped by an L<Iterator::Flex::Base> based iterator.

It may be one of the following:

=over

=item *

an L</iterable object>

=item *

an arrayref

=item *

a coderef, which must return the next element in the iteration.

=item *

a globref, assumed to be a filehandle.

=back

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Bugs

Please report any bugs or feature requests to bug-iterator-flex@rt.cpan.org  or through the web interface at: L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Iterator-Flex>

=head2 Source

Source is available at

  https://gitlab.com/djerius/iterator-flex

and may be cloned from

  https://gitlab.com/djerius/iterator-flex.git

=head1 SEE ALSO

Please see those modules/websites for more information related to this module.

=over 4

=item *

L<Iterator::Flex|Iterator::Flex>

=item *

L<Iterator::Flex::Manual|Iterator::Flex::Manual>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Diab Jerius <djerius@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2018 by Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The GNU General Public License, Version 3, June 2007

=cut
