# PODNAME: Iterator::Flex::Manual::Overview
# ABSTRACT: An Abstract overview of Iterators

__END__

=pod

=for :stopwords Diab Jerius Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

=head1 NAME

Iterator::Flex::Manual::Overview - An Abstract overview of Iterators

=head1 VERSION

version 0.19

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Iterator life-cycle

There are four iterator states:

=over

=item 1

L<initialized|/Initialized State>

=item 2

L<iteration|/Iteration State>

=item 3

L<exhausted|/Exhausted State>

=item 4

L<error|/Error State>

=back

An iterator typically moves sequentially from
L<initialized|/Initialized State>
to L<iteration|/Iteration State>
to L<exhausted|/Exhausted State>.

Non-sequential transitions may occur from I<non-error> states when

=over

=item *

a data source is empty to begin with, in which case L</next> will
transition from the L<initialized state|/Initialized State> directly to the
L<exhausted state|/Exhausted State>.

=item *

something goes wrong, in which case the iterator will transition to
the L<error state|/Error State>.

=item *

the iterator is L</reset>, in which case it transitions to the
L<initialized state|/Initialized State>.

=back

Attempts to transition from an L<error state|/Error State> to another
state result in undefined behavior.

=head3 Initialized State

An iterator is in the I<initialized> state immediately after it has been
constructed, or if it has been L<reset|/reset>.

In the initialized state,

=over

=item *

L</next> will attempt to retrieve the first element from the data stream.

=over

=item *

If the data stream is empty, the iterator transitions to the
L</Exhausted State> and signals exhaustion.

=item *

If there was an error the iterator transitions to the L</Error State>
and signals error.

=item *

otherwise, the iterator transitions to the L</Iteration State> and the
element is returned.

=back

=item *

L</prev> and L</current> (if they are supported) return an indeterminate value.

=back

=head3 Iteration State

An iterator is in the I<iteration> state if the last call to L</next> successfully
returned data.

In the iteration state,

=over

=item *

L</next> will attempt to retrieve the next element from the data stream.

=over

=item *

If the data stream is empty, the iterator transitions to the
L</Exhausted State> and signals exhaustion.

=item *

If there was an error, the iterator transitions to the L</Error State>
and signals error.

=item *

otherwise, the element is returned.

=back

=item *

L</prev> returns

=over

=item *

an indeterminate value If the previous call to L</next> transitioned
the iterator from the L</Initialized State>

=item *

otherwise, the value returned by the penultimate successful call to
L</next>.

=back

=item *

L</current> returns the value returned by the last successful call to
L</next>.

=back

=head3 Exhausted State

An iterator enters the I<exhausted> state after a call to L</next> when the iterator
determines that there are no more data to retrieve.

In this state,

=over

=item *

L</prev> returns

=over

=item *

an indeterminate value if the last L</next> call transitioned the
iterator from the L</Initialized State>;

=item *

otherwise, the value returned by the penultimate successful call to L</next>.

=back

=item *

L</current> returns an indeterminate value.

=back

For example, if the data are I<1, 2, 3>, the following expressions, executed
in order, are all true.

     1	 $iter->prev    == ?;  # indeterminate; in initialized state
     2	 $iter->current == ?;  # indeterminate; in initialized state
     3
     4	 $iter->next    == 1;  # in iteration state
     5	 $iter->prev    == ?;  # indeterminate
     6	 $iter->current == 1;
     7
     8	 $iter->next    == 2;
     9	 $iter->prev    == 1;  # from line 4
    10	 $iter->current == 2;
    11
    12	 $iter->next    == 3;
    13	 $iter->prev    == 2;
    14	 $iter->current == 3;
    15
    16	 $iter->next;          # signals exhaustion;
    17
    18	 $iter->is_exhausted == 1;
    19
    20	 $iter->prev    == 3;
    21	 $iter->current == ?;  # indeterminate
    22	 $iter->next;          # still signals exhaustion;

=head3 Error State

An iterator transitions to the I<error> state when the iterator has
determined that something went wrong.

=head2 Signaling State Transitions

The iterator signals transitions to the L<exhausted|/Exhausted State>
and L<error|/Error State> states.

=head3 Transitions to the Exhausted State

Signaling exhaustion (via the C<signal_exhaustion> method) results in one of following actions:

=over

=item *

throwing an exception of type C<Iterator::Flex::Failure::Exhausted>; or

=item *

returning a sentinel value

=back

The choice is made by the I<user> of the iterator; iterators use a generic signaling mechanism.

=head3 Transitions to the Error State

Signaling error (via the C<signal_error> method) results in one of following actions:

=over

=item *

Throwing an exception of type C<Iterator::Flex::Failure::Error>.

=back

=head2 Capabilities

Iterators are capable of performing at least one task, namely retrieving the next datum in the
data stream, but may be capable of others as well.  These capabilities are invoked as methods
with the name of the capability, e.g. C<< $iter->next >>, C<< $iter->prev >>, etc.

=head3 Required Capabilities

=head4 next

  # these are equivalent
  $value = $iter->next;
  $value = $iter->();

This provides the ability to return the next element from the
iterator. During the first call to L</next> the iterator transitions
from the L<initialized state|/Initialized State> to another
(L<iteration|/Iteration State>, L<exhausted|/Exhausted State>
or L<error|/Error State>).

If it has made it to the L<iteration state|/Iteration State>, it
returns a valid value, otherwise, it signals either
L<exhaustion|/Transitions to the Exhausted State>  or L<error|/Transitions to the Error State>.

Invoking I<next> will either result in a valid value, or, if the
iterator is exhausted, an indication of exhaustion, which may either
be

=over

=item *

A sentinel value, indicated by the I<Iterator::Flex::Role::Exhaustion::Return> role.

=item *

An exception,  indicated by the I<Iterator::Flex::Role::Exhaustion::Throw> role.

=back

=head3 Optional Capabilities

=head4 prev

  $value = $iter->prev;

If the iterator is in the L<iteration state|/Iteration State>, it returns the
value returned by the penultimate L</next> operation. If the last L</next>
operation transitioned the iterator from the L<initialized state|/Initialized State>,
it returns an indeterminate value.

In any other state, it returns an indeterminate value.

=head4 current

  $value = $iter->current;

If the iterator is in the L<iteration state|/Iteration State>, returns the
value returned by the last L</next> operation.

In any other state, it returns an indeterminate value.

=head4 rewind

  $iter->rewind;

If the iterator is in the L<iteration state|/Iteration State>, ensures that
the next L</next> operation will retrieve the first element from the
data stream.

Rewinding maintains the correctness of the L</prev> and L</current>
capabilities, enabling cyclic iterators.

For example, if the data are I<1, 2, 3>, the following expressions, executed
in order, are all true.

     1	 $iter->prev    == ?;  # indeterminate; in initialized state
     2	 $iter->current == ?;  # indeterminate; in initialized state
     3
     4	 $iter->next    == 1;  # in iteration state
     5	 $iter->prev    == ?;  # indeterminate
     6	 $iter->current == 1;
     7
     8	 $iter->next    == 2;
     9	 $iter->prev    == 1;  # from line 4
    10	 $iter->current == 2;
    11
    12	 $iter->rewind;
    13
    14	 $iter->prev    == 1;  # no change
    15	 $iter->current == 2;  # no change
    16
    17	 $iter->next    == 1;  # start all over
    18	 $iter->current == 1;
    19	 $iter->prev    == 2;  # from line 8
    20
    21	 $iter->next    == 2;
    22	 $iter->current == 2;
    23	 $iter->prev    == 1;  # from line 17

=head4 reset

  $iter->reset;

Transitions the iterator to the L<initialized state|/Initialized State>.

For example, if the data are I<1, 2, 3>, the following expressions, executed
in order, are all true.

     1	 $iter->prev    == ?;  # indeterminate; in initialized state
     2	 $iter->current == ?;  # indeterminate; in initialized state
     3
     4	 $iter->next    == 1;  # in iteration state
     5	 $iter->prev    == ?;  # indeterminate
     6	 $iter->current == 1;
     7
     8	 $iter->next    == 2;
     9	 $iter->prev    == 1;  # from line 4
    10	 $iter->current == 2;
    11
    12	 $iter->reset;
    14
    15	 $iter->prev    == ?;  # indeterminate; in initialized state
    16	 $iter->current == ?;  # indeterminate; in initialized state
    17
    18	 $iter->next    == 1;  # in iteration state
    19	 $iter->prev    == ?;  # indeterminate
    20	 $iter->current == 1;
    21
    22	 $iter->next    == 2;
    23	 $iter->prev    == 1;  # from line 18
    24	 $iter->current == 2;
    25

=head4 freeze

  $state = $iter->freeze;
  $iter = ithaw( $state );

C<freeze> serializes the state of the iterator and the data stream so that the state
can be saved and later restored. This puts significant constraints on
the nature of the data source.

C<ithaw> is a I<subroutine> (not a method) which is the opposite of
L</freeze>.  Given a serialized iterator, it reconstitute it so that
it behaves exactly as it would before it was frozen.  Under the hood
it calls the C<thaw> method.

=head2 Generator Parameters

Parameters are passed to iterator and attribute generators, either
through the convenience functions in L<Iterator::Flex::Common>, the
constructors in L<Iterator::Flex::Factory> or the constructors in
bespoke iterator classes which subclass L<Iterator::Flex::Base>.

=head3 Classes of Parameters

There are several classes of parameters used by iterators and adapters:

=over

=item *

I<Model> parameters are specific to a type of iterator.  For example, the
L<cache|Iterator::Flex::Cache> iterator has a model parameter for the
cache L<capacity|Iterator::Flex::Cache/capacity>.

=item *

I<Interface> parameters provide implementations of the capabilities that the
iterator provides.

=item *

I<Exhaustion> parameters define how the iterator signals exhaustion.

=item *

I<Error> parameters define how the iterator signals error.

=back

Exhaustion, Error, and Interface parameters are also called I<General Parameters>.

=head3 Interface Parameters

=over

=item C<_self>

A reference to a lexical variable which will be set by the iterator
generator to a reference to the iterator object.  This is used only if
the iterator class consumes the
L<Iterator::Flex::Role::Next::ClosedSelf> role.

=item C<_name>

The name of the iterator to be used in error messages.  If not specified, it is set
to the iterator class.

=item C<state>

A reference to a lexical variable which will reflect whether the state
is one of L<exhaustion|/Exhausted State>, L<error|/Error State>, or
something else.  This is used if the iterator class consumes the
L<Iterator::Flex::Role::State::Closure> role.  (The alternative is for
the state to be stored in the iterator registry by consuming the
L<Iterator::Flex::Role::State::Registry> role).

Using this functionality the state stored in the lexical variable can
be accessed directly from iterator closures and compared to one of the
constants C<IterState_EXHAUSTED> or C<IterState_ERROR> (see
L<Iterator::Flex::Utils/Iterator State Constants>).

The state is also queryable via the
L<is_exhausted|Iterator::Flex::Base/is_exhausted> and
L<is_error|Iterator::Flex::Base/is_error> iterator object methods.

=item C<class>

The class which will consume iterator roles and from which the object
will be instantiated.  This option is only used by
L<Iterator::Flex::Factory> generators.  It defaults to
L<Iterator::Flex::Base>.

=item C<next>

A code reference which returns the next element in the data source.
This will be made available as the object method C<next>, but
may also be invoked directly as a subroutine (e.g. C<< $next->() >>).

Access to the iterator object can be obtained by either:

=over

=item *

specifying the L</_self> parameter
and applying the L<Iterator::Flex::Role::Next::ClosedSelf>
role to the class.

=item *

applying the L<Iterator::Flex::Role::Wrap::Self> role.  The results
in the creation of a wrapper ensuring that the code reference is
always invoked as an object method.

=back

=item C<prev>

A code reference which returns the value retrieved by the penultimate
call to L</next>.  This will be made available as the object method C<prev>.

This is used only if the iterator class consumes the
L<Iterator::Flex::Role::Prev::Closure> role.

Classes constructed via the L<Iterator::Flex::Factory> constructors will automatically
be composed with the L<Iterator::Flex::Role::Prev::Method> if the L</prev> parameter
is not specified and the class specified by the L</class> parameter provides a C<prev>
object method.

Bespoke classes should apply the L<Iterator::Flex::Role::Prev::Method>
role using the L<Iterator::Flex::Base/_add_roles> class method.

=item C<current>

A code reference which returns the value retrieved by the last call to L</next>.
This will be made available as the object method C<current>.

This is used only if the iterator class consumes the
L<Iterator::Flex::Role::Current::Closure> role.

Classes constructed via the L<Iterator::Flex::Factory> constructors will automatically
be composed with the L<Iterator::Flex::Role::Current::Method> if the L</prev> parameter
is not specified and the class specified by the L</class> parameter provides a C<prev>
object method.

Bespoke classes should apply the L<Iterator::Flex::Role::Current::Method>
role using the L<Iterator::Flex::Base/_add_roles> class method.

=item C<reset>

A code reference which will restore the iterator to the L<initialized
state|/Initialized State>.

This is used only if the iterator class consumes the
L<Iterator::Flex::Role::Reset::Closure> role.

Classes constructed via the L<Iterator::Flex::Factory> constructors will automatically
be composed with the L<Iterator::Flex::Role::Reset::Method> if the L</prev> parameter
is not specified and the class specified by the L</class> parameter provides a C<prev>
object method.

Bespoke classes should apply the L<Iterator::Flex::Role::Reset::Method>
role using the L<Iterator::Flex::Base/_add_roles> class method.

The state variable (accessible via the
L<is_exhausted|Iterator::Flex::Base/is_exhausted> and
L<is_error|Iterator::Flex::Base/is_error> iterator object methods)
will automatically be reset.

If the iterator is an adapter depending upon other iterators, they
will automatically be reset.

=item C<rewind>

A code reference which will ensure that the next call to L</next> returns the first
element in the data stream.

This is used only if the iterator class consumes the
L<Iterator::Flex::Role::Rewind::Closure> role.

Classes constructed via the L<Iterator::Flex::Factory> constructors will automatically
be composed with the L<Iterator::Flex::Role::Rewind::Method> if the L</prev> parameter
is not specified and the class specified by the L</class> parameter provides a C<prev>
object method.

Bespoke classes should apply the L<Iterator::Flex::Role::Rewind::Method>
role using the L<Iterator::Flex::Base/_add_roles> class method.

If the iterator is an adapter depending upon other iterators, they
will automatically be rewound.

=item C<freeze>

A code reference which returns a serialized version of the iterator.
See L<Iterator::Flex::Manual::Serialization> and
L<Iterator::Flex::Manual::Caveats/Serialization>.

=item C<methods>

A hash whose keys are method names and whose values are coderefs.
These will be added as methods to the iterator class.
Useful for making a set of closures available as methods.

=item C<_depends>

A list of iterator objects that the adapter depends upon. Used by
iterator adapters.  Automatically added by L<Iterator::Flex::Factory>
constructors.  Bespoke classes must provide this explicitly.

=back

=head3 Exhaustion

There are two parameters that specify how exhaustion is signalled:

=over

=item C<input_exhaustion>

This applies only to iterator adapters, and indicates how the consumed
iterator signals exhaustion.  It can take the following values:

=over

=item C<throw>

The consumed iterator throws an indeterminate exception on exhaustion.

=item C<< [ throw => $class ] >>

The consumed iterator throws an exception upon exhaustion in the given class on exhaustion.

=item C<< [ throw => \@classes ] >>

The consumed iterator throws an exception upon exhaustion in one of the given classes on exhaustion.

=item C<< [ throw => $regexp ] >>

The consumed iterator throws an exception upon exhaustion which when stringified matches the passed
regular expression.

=item C<< [ throw => $coderef ] >>

The consumed iterator throws an exception; C<< $coderef->( $e ) >> returns true if 
the exception indicates exhaustion.

=item C<return>

The consumed iterator returns a sentinel value of
C<undef> on exhaustion.

=item C<< [ return => $value ] >>

The consumed iterator returns a sentinel value of
C<$value> on exhaustion.

=back

=item C<exhaustion>

This applies to both iterators and adapters, and indicates how they
signal exhaustion.  It can take the following values:

=over

=item C<< [ throw => 'passthrough' ] >>

Only for adapters where the consumed iterator will throw on
exhaustion; this lets that exception propagate.

=item C<throw>

Throw an exception of L<Iterator::Flex::Failure::Exhaustion|Iterator::Flex::Failure/Exhaustion>.

=item C<< [ throw => $coderef ] >>

Invoke C<$coderef>.  If it does not throw, an exception of
L<Iterator::Flex::Failure::Exhaustion|Iterator::Flex::Failure/Exhaustion>. will
be thrown.

=item C<return>

For both iterators and adapters, indicates that a sentinel value of
C<undef> will be returned.

=item C<< [ return => $value ] >>

For both iterators and adapters, indicates that the specified sentinel value will be returned.

=back

=back

=head3 Error

=over

=item C<error>

This applies to both iterators and  adapters, and indicates how they signal error.
It may have one of the following values:

=over

=item C<throw>

Throw an exception of L<Iterator::Flex::Failure::Error|Iterator::Flex::Failure/Error>.

=item C<< [ throw => $coderef ] >>

Invoke C<$coderef>.  If it does not throw, an exception of  L<Iterator::Flex::Failure::Error|Iterator::Flex::Failure/Error>. will be thrown.

=back

=back

=head1 INTERNALS

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Bugs

Please report any bugs or feature requests to bug-iterator-flex@rt.cpan.org  or through the web interface at: L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Iterator-Flex>

=head2 Source

Source is available at

  https://gitlab.com/djerius/iterator-flex

and may be cloned from

  https://gitlab.com/djerius/iterator-flex.git

=head1 SEE ALSO

Please see those modules/websites for more information related to this module.

=over 4

=item *

L<Iterator::Flex|Iterator::Flex>

=item *

L<Iterator::Flex::Manual|Iterator::Flex::Manual>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Diab Jerius <djerius@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2018 by Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The GNU General Public License, Version 3, June 2007

=cut
