# PODNAME: Iterator::Flex::Manual::PriorArt
# ABSTRACT: Other Iterator Models

__END__

=pod

=for :stopwords Diab Jerius Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Raku

=head1 NAME

Iterator::Flex::Manual::PriorArt - Other Iterator Models

=head1 VERSION

version 0.19

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Iterators are not new.

=head2 Other Languages

These languages provide official iterator facilities, namely classes
whose objects retrieve data from a source (similar to this package).
There's a range in how they signal exhaustion:

=over

=item *

Python, throws an exception C<StopIteration>;

=item *

Raku returns a special sentinel value C<IterationEnd>;

=item *

JavaScript returns an object with C<value> and C<done> properties, with C<done> false;

=item *

Ruby (via the Enumerator class) raises the C<StopIteration> exception;

=item *

Java throws a C<NoSuchElementException> exception.

=back

=head2 C++

L<C++|https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/iterator> arguably has the
most complicated model of iterators, as they can insert as well
as retrieve.  They're also a very different model from other
languages, so not comparable.

=head2 Perl

And Perl... Well, Perl doesn't provide an official iterator, so Perl
can signal exhaustion any way it wants. This is great unless you need to use
an iterator which doesn't fit your exhaustion model.  In any case,
see L<Iterator::Flex::Manual::Alien>.

=over

=item *

L<Iterator>

=item *

L<Iterator::Simple>

=back

=head1 INTERNALS

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Bugs

Please report any bugs or feature requests to bug-iterator-flex@rt.cpan.org  or through the web interface at: L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Iterator-Flex>

=head2 Source

Source is available at

  https://gitlab.com/djerius/iterator-flex

and may be cloned from

  https://gitlab.com/djerius/iterator-flex.git

=head1 SEE ALSO

Please see those modules/websites for more information related to this module.

=over 4

=item *

L<Iterator::Flex|Iterator::Flex>

=item *

L<Iterator::Flex::Manual|Iterator::Flex::Manual>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Diab Jerius <djerius@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2018 by Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The GNU General Public License, Version 3, June 2007

=cut
