# PODNAME: Iterator::Flex::Manual::Using
# ABSTRACT: How to use an Iterator::Flex iterator

__END__

=pod

=for :stopwords Diab Jerius Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

=head1 NAME

Iterator::Flex::Manual::Using - How to use an Iterator::Flex iterator

=head1 VERSION

version 0.19

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Construction

=head2 Iteration

=head2 Exhaustion

=head2 Errors

=head1 INTERNALS

=head1 METHODS

Not all iterators support all methods.

=over

=item prev

  $value = $iter->prev;

Returns the previous value of the iterator.  If the iterator was never
advanced, this returns C<undef>.  If the iterator is exhausted, this
returns the last retrieved value.

=item current

  $value = $iter->current;

Returns the current value of the iterator.  If the iterator was never
advanced, this returns undef.  If the iterator is exhausted, this
returns C<undef>.

=item next

  $value = $iter->next;

Return the next value from the iterator.

=item rewind

  $iter->rewind;

Resets the iterator so that the next value returned is the very first
value.  It should not affect the results of the L</prev> and L</current>
methods.

=item reset

  $iter->reset;

Resets the iterator to its initial state.  The iterator's state is not
changed.

=item is_exhausted

  $iter->is_exhausted;

True if the iterator is in the L<exhausted
state|Iterator::Flex::Manual::Overview/Exhausted State>.  A false
value does I<not> indicate that further data are available, only that
the iterator has not yet transitioned from I<Iteration> to
I<Exhausted>.  In general, iterators

=item is_error

  $iter->is_error;

True if the iterator is in the L<error state|Iterator::Flex::Manual::Overview/Error State>.

=back

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Bugs

Please report any bugs or feature requests to bug-iterator-flex@rt.cpan.org  or through the web interface at: L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Iterator-Flex>

=head2 Source

Source is available at

  https://gitlab.com/djerius/iterator-flex

and may be cloned from

  https://gitlab.com/djerius/iterator-flex.git

=head1 SEE ALSO

Please see those modules/websites for more information related to this module.

=over 4

=item *

L<Iterator::Flex|Iterator::Flex>

=item *

L<Iterator::Flex::Manual|Iterator::Flex::Manual>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Diab Jerius <djerius@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2018 by Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The GNU General Public License, Version 3, June 2007

=cut
