=head1 Revision history for Test::Distribution.

=head2 2.00 (svn rev 29)

=over *

=item SIGNATURE support - back but optional. What i should have done in the first place! Sorry guys!

=item Fixed Changes.pod layout

=back

=head2 1.29 (svn rev 19) - REMOVED FROM CPAN

=over *

=item Removed SIGNATURE support - the sig fad has gone away, there have been issues with checking sigs on non-windows platforms

=back

=head2 1.28 (svn rev 10)

=over *

=item Support distribtions such as httpd_ctl which have no blib/lib dir

=back

=head2 1.27 (svn rev 4)

=over *

=item Documented source availability on sourceforge

=item Changes now in a pod file

=back

=head2 1.26

=over *

=item  Stoped using 'our' as this is not supported by Perl pre 5.6.x

=item  Changes.pod or ChangeLog.pod also allowed. (Thanks to Nik Clayton for the suggestion)

=item  Search for .pm files in blib/lib not lib

=item  Build.PL explitly requires a version of Pod::Coverage as Test::Pod::Coverage doesn't and it needs it (at least for the features I'm using). Thanks to Jim Keenan for pointing this out.

=back 

=head2 1.25

=over * 

=item  Removed Makefile.PL - everyone knows what Module::Build is these days

=back

=head2 1.24

=over *

=item  Removed message asking users not to log bugs to rt.cpan.org as I do now seem to finally own the bugs queue for this module

=back

=head2 1.23

=over *


=item  Stop using the MANIFEST list to find .pm files, just search under lib instead. This prevents T::D from trying to use modules not for install (e.g. under t/lib) and using them incorrectly!  Let me know if you'd like more flexiblity (e.g. to override the search directory, and if you need to specify multiple search roots). There is a dir option but it's not public/documented because I think I need to do a thorough code review to make sure it works properly. As I say, let me know if you want/need this flexibility and I shall add it to a future release.

=back

=head2 1.22

=over *

=item  .xpm files are no longer matched as modules

=back

=head2 1.21

=over *


=item  Try to fix one of the windows build errors that some users see by using Module::Signature directly instead of Test::Signature. Specifically the use of the CANNOT_VERIFY method - as it seems one can have Module::Signature installed without having the software which can actually do the verification installed.

=back

=head2 1.20

=over *

=item Minor documentation updates

=back

=head2 1.19

=over *

=item Added Test::Pod::Coverage support

=back

=head2 1.18

=over *

=item Now accept file ChangeLog as an alternative to Changes

=item Minor bug fix

Thanks to Steffen Schwigon for both of these changes.

=back

=head2 1.17

=over *


=item  Added the distversion option so that people can check whether $VERSION matches the distribution version. This used to be a mandatory check but was removed in 1.14.

=back

=head2 1.16

=over *


=item  Minimum version of ExtUtils::Manifest required is 1.43.  Passthrough Makefile.PL is now generated by Module::Build and so is up to date and now explicitly sets the build_class.  Thanks to Gabor Szabo for reporting these bugs in Test-Distribution v1.15
	  
=back

=head2 1.15

=over *


=item  Test::Distribution now uses the MANIFEST to find modules to test.

It falls back to doing a find for *.pm if no MANIFEST exists.  (thanks to
Paul Hughes aka Barbie and Steffen Müller for suggesting this)

=item  Added manifest test.

thanks to patch from Jonas B.Nielsen

=back

=head2 1.14

=over *


=item  Versions test  now less  restrictive.

It only  requires each package defined a version. The  version does not need to be the same as the distribution version. It just needs to exist This caters for the quite valid style of using cvs versions in individual files. Perl does not requrie all files in a dist to have the same $VERSION. However if you think that checking against the dist version would be a useful check for your personal style, let me know and i'll  add that check back in as an optional switch.  (thanks to Paul Hughes aka Barbie for the spot)

=back

=head2 1.13

=over *

=item  Simple update of TODO which i should have done in 1.12

=back

=head2 1.12

=over *


=item  prereq tests are now skipped if a Build.PL is found.

Stop gap measure till Test::Prereq has been patched.  (thanks to Paul Hughes aka Barbie)

=back

=head2 1.11

=over *


=item  Removed Test::Prereq as a prerequisite as i'm not actually using it yet

=item  02extra.t is more friendly on non-Unix style platforms 

Thanks to Paul Hughes aka Barbie

=back

=head2 1.10

=over *

=item  Updated TODO

=back

=head2 1.09

=over *

=item  Added missing Test::Signature to requires hash in Build.PL

=item  Added missing SKIP block to Test::Distribution::sig::run_tests

=back

=head2 1.08

=over *

=item  Updated example of 01distribution.t with code that doesn't cause testing of the module to fail if user does not have Test::Distribtion installed.
          
This is good because it means module authors who do not want to force their users to install Test::Distribution and all of its dependencies do not have to

=item  Added support for sig testing via Test::Signature

=back

=head2 1.07

=over *

=item  Minor POD Updates

=item  Description  tests now allow  no  Makefile.PL if you have a Build.PL.
    
However    this   does  not  mean   Module::Build
support.  You  still  need   a  Makefile.PL to  prevent  the
PREREQ_PM tests     failing. Module::Build    support   will
hopefully follow in a future version.

=back

=head2 1.06

=over *

=item  New Maintainer/Owner: Sagar R. Shah

=item  Moved from ExtUtils::MakeMaker to Module::Build for building

=item  Tests are now run in a specific order (stops Test::Distribution trying to evaluate $VERSION before doing a use)

=item  All non-core use()d modules test now has a proper test name

=item  Thanks to David A Golden for the patch

=back

=head2 1.05

=over *

=item  Testing PREREQ_PM relies on Module::CoreList which, even at the current version, doesn't know about perl 5.8.1 yet.  So in the meantime, I've added a simple check to skip PREREQ_PM testing if $Module::CoreList::version{ $] } doesn't exist (thanks Randal L. Schwartz and Richard Clamp).

=item  Testing PREREQ_PM now outputs an easy-to-understand error message if necessary. Previously I just used Test::More's is(), which didn't say what the test was about, just that two strings didn't match.

=back

=head2 1.04

=over *

=item  Changed to use Test::Pod 0.95 and pod_file_ok function instead of pod_ok to prevent deprecation warnings (thanks Sagar Shah)

=back

=head2 1.03

=over *

-

=item  added a named argument 'not' to ask not to do certain types of tests

=item  added test type 'prereq' that checks whether all non-provided non-core use()d files are in Makefile.PL's PREREQ_PM

=item  added test type 'description' that checks whether Changes, README, MANIFEST and Makefile.PL exist

=item  added checking for required modules with eval{} so we can skip tests if necessary (thanks petdance)

=item  changed munging of file and directory names from regexes to use File::Spec, to be portable

=back

=head2 1.02

=over *

=item  changed the name to Test::Distribution as per Andy Lester's suggestion and updated docs.

=back

=head2 1.01

=over *

=item  added named arguments ('tests', 'only') and reflection subs (packages(), files(), num_tests()), and docs for the same.

=back

=head2 1.00

=over *

=item  ideas by Andy Lester and brian d foy (see http://use.perl.org/~brian_d_foy/journal/7463)

=item  original version; created by h2xs 1.22 with options

=item XAn Test::Comprehensive

=back
