=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::audio-transcriptions - Documentation for the /audio/transcriptions path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 POST /audio/transcriptions

=head3 createTranscription

  $client->create_transcription({
      body => { ... },
  });

Transcribes audio into the input language.

Returns a transcription object in C<json> , C<diarized_json> , or
C<verbose_json> format, or a stream of transcript events.

=head4 Request body

Content-Type: multipart/form-data

Example:

    {
       "text" : "Imagine the wildest idea that you've ever had, and you're curious about how it might scale to something that's a 100, a 1,000 times bigger. This is a place where you can get to do that.",
       "usage" : {
          "input_token_details" : {
             "audio_tokens" : 14,
             "text_tokens" : 0
          },
          "input_tokens" : 14,
          "output_tokens" : 45,
          "total_tokens" : 59,
          "type" : "tokens"
       }
    }

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "text" : "Imagine the wildest idea that you've ever had, and you're curious about how it might scale to something that's a 100, a 1,000 times bigger. This is a place where you can get to do that.",
       "usage" : {
          "input_token_details" : {
             "audio_tokens" : 14,
             "text_tokens" : 0
          },
          "input_tokens" : 14,
          "output_tokens" : 45,
          "total_tokens" : 59,
          "type" : "tokens"
       }
    }

Content-Type: text/event-stream

Example:

    {
       "text" : "Imagine the wildest idea that you've ever had, and you're curious about how it might scale to something that's a 100, a 1,000 times bigger. This is a place where you can get to do that.",
       "usage" : {
          "input_token_details" : {
             "audio_tokens" : 14,
             "text_tokens" : 0
          },
          "input_tokens" : 14,
          "output_tokens" : 45,
          "total_tokens" : 59,
          "type" : "tokens"
       }
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 AudioResponseFormat

The format of the output, in one of these options: C<json> , C<text> , C<srt>
, C<verbose_json> , C<vtt> , or C<diarized_json> . For C<gpt-4o-transcribe>
and C<gpt-4o-mini-transcribe> , the only supported format is C<json> . For
C<gpt-4o-transcribe-diarize> , the supported formats are C<json> , C<text> ,
and C<diarized_json> , with C<diarized_json> required to receive speaker
annotations.

=head2 CreateTranscriptionRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<chunking_strategy> (anyOf)

=item * C<file> (string, required) - The audio file object (not file name) to transcribe, in one of these formats:
flac, mp3, mp4, mpeg, mpga, m4a, ogg, wav, or webm.

=item * C<include> (array of TranscriptionInclude) - Additional information to include in the transcription response. C<logprobs>
will return the log probabilities of the tokens in the response to understand
the model's confidence in the transcription. C<logprobs> only works with
response_format set to C<json> and only with the models C<gpt-4o-transcribe> ,
C<gpt-4o-mini-transcribe> , and C<gpt-4o-mini-transcribe-2025-12-15> . This
field is not supported when using C<gpt-4o-transcribe-diarize> .

=item * C<known_speaker_names> (array of string) - Optional list of speaker names that correspond to the audio samples provided
in C<known_speaker_references[]> . Each entry should be a short identifier
(for example C<customer> or C<agent> ). Up to 4 speakers are supported.

=item * C<known_speaker_references> (array of string) - Optional list of audio samples (as
L<data URLs|https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/Data_URLs>
) that contain known speaker references matching C<known_speaker_names[]> .
Each sample must be between 2 and 10 seconds, and can use any of the same
input audio formats supported by C<file> .

=item * C<language> (string) - The language of the input audio. Supplying the input language in
L<ISO-639-1|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes> (e.g. C<en>
) format will improve accuracy and latency.

=item * C<model> (anyOf, required) - ID of the model to use. The options are C<gpt-4o-transcribe> ,
C<gpt-4o-mini-transcribe> , C<gpt-4o-mini-transcribe-2025-12-15> ,
C<whisper-1> (which is powered by our open source Whisper V2 model), and
C<gpt-4o-transcribe-diarize> .

=item * C<prompt> (string) - An optional text to guide the model's style or continue a previous audio
segment. The
L<prompt|https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/speech-to-text#prompting>
should match the audio language. This field is not supported when using
C<gpt-4o-transcribe-diarize> .

=item * C<response_format> (AudioResponseFormat)

See L</AudioResponseFormat> below for shape.

=item * C<stream> (anyOf)

=item * C<temperature> (number) - The sampling temperature, between 0 and 1. Higher values like 0.8 will make
the output more random, while lower values like 0.2 will make it more focused
and deterministic. If set to 0, the model will use
L<log probability|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Log_probability> to
automatically increase the temperature until certain thresholds are hit.

Default: 0

=item * C<timestamp_granularities> (array of string) - The timestamp granularities to populate for this transcription.
C<response_format> must be set C<verbose_json> to use timestamp granularities.
Either or both of these options are supported: C<word> , or C<segment> . Note:
There is no additional latency for segment timestamps, but generating word
timestamps incurs additional latency. This option is not available for
C<gpt-4o-transcribe-diarize> .

Default: ["segment"]

=back

=head2 CreateTranscriptionResponseStreamEvent

See L<https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference> for details.

=head2 TranscriptionInclude

See L<https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference> for details.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
