=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::audio-translations - Documentation for the /audio/translations path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 POST /audio/translations

=head3 createTranslation

  $client->create_translation({
      body => { ... },
  });

Translates audio into English.

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "text" : "string"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 CreateTranslationRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<file> (string, required) - The audio file object (not file name) translate, in one of these formats:
flac, mp3, mp4, mpeg, mpga, m4a, ogg, wav, or webm.

=item * C<model> (anyOf, required) - ID of the model to use. Only C<whisper-1> (which is powered by our open source
Whisper V2 model) is currently available.

=item * C<prompt> (string) - An optional text to guide the model's style or continue a previous audio
segment. The
L<prompt|https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/speech-to-text#prompting>
should be in English.

=item * C<response_format> (string) - The format of the output, in one of these options: C<json> , C<text> , C<srt>
, C<verbose_json> , or C<vtt> .

Allowed values: json, text, srt, verbose_json, vtt

Default: json

=item * C<temperature> (number) - The sampling temperature, between 0 and 1. Higher values like 0.8 will make
the output more random, while lower values like 0.2 will make it more focused
and deterministic. If set to 0, the model will use
L<log probability|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Log_probability> to
automatically increase the temperature until certain thresholds are hit.

Default: 0

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
