=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::audio-voices - Documentation for the /audio/voices path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 POST /audio/voices

=head3 createVoice

  $client->create_voice({
      body => { ... },
  });

Creates a custom voice.

Create a custom voice you can use for audio output (for example, in
Text-to-Speech and the Realtime API). This requires an audio sample and a
previously uploaded consent recording.

See the
L<custom voices guide|https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/text-to-speech#custom-voices>
for requirements and best practices. Custom voices are limited to eligible
customers.

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created_at" : 1734220800,
       "id" : "voice_123abc",
       "name" : "My new voice",
       "object" : "audio.voice"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 CreateVoiceRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<audio_sample> (string, required) - The sample audio recording file. Maximum size is 10 MiB.

Supported MIME types: C<audio/mpeg> , C<audio/wav> , C<audio/x-wav> ,
C<audio/ogg> , C<audio/aac> , C<audio/flac> , C<audio/webm> , C<audio/mp4> .

=item * C<consent> (string, required) - The consent recording ID (for example, C<cons_1234> ).

=item * C<name> (string, required) - The name of the new voice.

=back

=head2 VoiceResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the voice was created.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The voice identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

=item * C<name> (string, required) - The name of the voice.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<audio.voice> .

Allowed values: audio.voice

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
