=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::audio-voice_consents - Documentation for the /audio/voice_consents path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /audio/voice_consents

=head3 listVoiceConsents

  $client->list_voice_consents({
      body => { ... },
  });

Returns a list of voice consent recordings.

List consent recordings available to your organization for creating custom
voices.

See the
L<custom voices guide|https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/text-to-speech#custom-voices>
. Custom voices are limited to eligible customers.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - A cursor for use in pagination. C<after> is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include after=obj_foo
in order to fetch the next page of the list.

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - A limit on the number of objects to be returned. Limit can range between 1 and
100, and the default is 20.

Default: 20

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          {
             "created_at" : 1734220800,
             "id" : "cons_1234",
             "language" : "en-US",
             "name" : "John Doe",
             "object" : "audio.voice_consent"
          }
       ],
       "first_id" : "cons_1234",
       "has_more" : false,
       "last_id" : "cons_1234",
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head2 POST /audio/voice_consents

=head3 createVoiceConsent

  $client->create_voice_consent({
      body => { ... },
  });

Upload a voice consent recording.

Upload a consent recording that authorizes creation of a custom voice.

See the
L<custom voices guide|https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/text-to-speech#custom-voices>
for requirements and best practices. Custom voices are limited to eligible
customers.

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created_at" : 1734220800,
       "id" : "cons_1234",
       "language" : "en-US",
       "name" : "John Doe",
       "object" : "audio.voice_consent"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 CreateVoiceConsentRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<language> (string, required) - The BCP 47 language tag for the consent phrase (for example, C<en-US> ).

=item * C<name> (string, required) - The label to use for this consent recording.

=item * C<recording> (string, required) - The consent audio recording file. Maximum size is 10 MiB.

Supported MIME types: C<audio/mpeg> , C<audio/wav> , C<audio/x-wav> ,
C<audio/ogg> , C<audio/aac> , C<audio/flac> , C<audio/webm> , C<audio/mp4> .

=back

=head2 VoiceConsentListResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of VoiceConsentResource, required)

=item * C<first_id> (anyOf)

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required)

=item * C<last_id> (anyOf)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

Allowed values: list

=back

=head2 VoiceConsentResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the consent recording was created.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The consent recording identifier.

=item * C<language> (string, required) - The BCP 47 language tag for the consent phrase (for example, C<en-US> ).

=item * C<name> (string, required) - The label provided when the consent recording was uploaded.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<audio.voice_consent> .

Allowed values: audio.voice_consent

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
