=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::batches-batch_id - Documentation for the /batches/{batch_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /batches/{batch_id}

=head3 retrieveBatch

  $client->retrieve_batch({
      body => { ... },
  });

Retrieves a batch.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<batch_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the batch to retrieve.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Batch retrieved successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    "{\n  \"id\": \"batch_abc123\",\n  \"object\": \"batch\",\n  \"endpoint\": \"/v1/completions\",\n  \"model\": \"gpt-5-2025-08-07\",\n  \"errors\": null,\n  \"input_file_id\": \"file-abc123\",\n  \"completion_window\": \"24h\",\n  \"status\": \"completed\",\n  \"output_file_id\": \"file-cvaTdG\",\n  \"error_file_id\": \"file-HOWS94\",\n  \"created_at\": 1711471533,\n  \"in_progress_at\": 1711471538,\n  \"expires_at\": 1711557933,\n  \"finalizing_at\": 1711493133,\n  \"completed_at\": 1711493163,\n  \"failed_at\": null,\n  \"expired_at\": null,\n  \"cancelling_at\": null,\n  \"cancelled_at\": null,\n  \"request_counts\": {\n    \"total\": 100,\n    \"completed\": 95,\n    \"failed\": 5\n  },\n  \"usage\": {\n    \"input_tokens\": 1500,\n    \"input_tokens_details\": {\n      \"cached_tokens\": 1024\n    },\n    \"output_tokens\": 500,\n    \"output_tokens_details\": {\n      \"reasoning_tokens\": 300\n    },\n    \"total_tokens\": 2000\n  },\n  \"metadata\": {\n    \"customer_id\": \"user_123456789\",\n    \"batch_description\": \"Nightly eval job\",\n  }\n}\n"

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 Batch

Properties:

=over

=item * C<cancelled_at> (integer) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the batch was cancelled.

=item * C<cancelling_at> (integer) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the batch started cancelling.

=item * C<completed_at> (integer) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the batch was completed.

=item * C<completion_window> (string, required) - The time frame within which the batch should be processed.

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the batch was created.

=item * C<endpoint> (string, required) - The OpenAI API endpoint used by the batch.

=item * C<error_file_id> (string) - The ID of the file containing the outputs of requests with errors.

=item * C<errors> (object)

=item * C<expired_at> (integer) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the batch expired.

=item * C<expires_at> (integer) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the batch will expire.

=item * C<failed_at> (integer) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the batch failed.

=item * C<finalizing_at> (integer) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the batch started finalizing.

=item * C<id> (string, required)

=item * C<in_progress_at> (integer) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the batch started processing.

=item * C<input_file_id> (string, required) - The ID of the input file for the batch.

=item * C<metadata> (Metadata)

See L</Metadata> below for shape.

=item * C<model> (string) - Model ID used to process the batch, like C<gpt-5-2025-08-07> . OpenAI offers a
wide range of models with different capabilities, performance characteristics,
and price points. Refer to the
L<model guide|https://platform.openai.com/docs/models> to browse and compare
available models.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<batch> .

Allowed values: batch

=item * C<output_file_id> (string) - The ID of the file containing the outputs of successfully executed requests.

=item * C<request_counts> (object) - The request counts for different statuses within the batch.

=item * C<status> (string, required) - The current status of the batch.

Allowed values: validating, failed, in_progress, finalizing, completed, expired, cancelling, cancelled

=item * C<usage> (object) - Represents token usage details including input tokens, output tokens, a
breakdown of output tokens, and the total tokens used. Only populated on
batches created after September 7, 2025.

=back

=head2 Metadata

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format, and querying for objects via API or the dashboard.

Keys are strings with a maximum length of 64 characters. Values are strings
with a maximum length of 512 characters.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
