=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::chatkit-threads - Documentation for the /chatkit/threads path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /chatkit/threads

=head3 ListThreadsMethod

  $client->list_threads_method({
      body => { ... },
  });

List ChatKit threads with optional pagination and user filters.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - Maximum number of thread items to return. Defaults to 20.

=item * C<order> (in query, optional, string) - Sort order for results by creation time. Defaults to C<desc> .

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - List items created after this thread item ID. Defaults to null for the first
page.

=item * C<before> (in query, optional, string) - List items created before this thread item ID. Defaults to null for the newest
results.

=item * C<user> (in query, optional, string) - Filter threads that belong to this user identifier. Defaults to null to return
all users.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          {
             "created_at" : 1712345600,
             "id" : "cthr_def456",
             "object" : "chatkit.thread",
             "status" : {
                "type" : "active"
             },
             "title" : "Demo feedback",
             "user" : "user_456"
          }
       ],
       "first_id" : "string",
       "has_more" : false,
       "last_id" : "string",
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 ThreadListResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of ThreadResource, required) - A list of items

=item * C<first_id> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required) - Whether there are more items available.

=item * C<last_id> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The type of object returned, must be C<list> .

Allowed values: list

Default: list

=back

=head2 ThreadResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the thread was created.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - Identifier of the thread.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - Type discriminator that is always C<chatkit.thread> .

Allowed values: chatkit.thread

Default: chatkit.thread

=item * C<status> (oneOf, required) - Current status for the thread. Defaults to C<active> for newly created
threads.

=item * C<title> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<user> (string, required) - Free-form string that identifies your end user who owns the thread.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
