=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::chatkit-threads-thread_id - Documentation for the /chatkit/threads/{thread_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /chatkit/threads/{thread_id}

=head3 DeleteThreadMethod

  $client->delete_thread_method({
      body => { ... },
  });

Delete a ChatKit thread along with its items and stored attachments.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<thread_id> (in path, required, string) - Identifier of the ChatKit thread to delete.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "deleted" : false,
       "id" : "string",
       "object" : "chatkit.thread.deleted"
    }

=head2 GET /chatkit/threads/{thread_id}

=head3 GetThreadMethod

  $client->get_thread_method({
      body => { ... },
  });

Retrieve a ChatKit thread by its identifier.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<thread_id> (in path, required, string) - Identifier of the ChatKit thread to retrieve.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created_at" : 1712345600,
       "id" : "cthr_def456",
       "object" : "chatkit.thread",
       "status" : {
          "type" : "active"
       },
       "title" : "Demo feedback",
       "user" : "user_456"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 DeletedThreadResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<deleted> (boolean, required) - Indicates that the thread has been deleted.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - Identifier of the deleted thread.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - Type discriminator that is always C<chatkit.thread.deleted> .

Allowed values: chatkit.thread.deleted

Default: chatkit.thread.deleted

=back

=head2 ThreadResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the thread was created.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - Identifier of the thread.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - Type discriminator that is always C<chatkit.thread> .

Allowed values: chatkit.thread

Default: chatkit.thread

=item * C<status> (oneOf, required) - Current status for the thread. Defaults to C<active> for newly created
threads.

=item * C<title> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<user> (string, required) - Free-form string that identifies your end user who owns the thread.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
