=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::chatkit-threads-thread_id-items - Documentation for the /chatkit/threads/{thread_id}/items path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /chatkit/threads/{thread_id}/items

=head3 ListThreadItemsMethod

  $client->list_thread_items_method({
      body => { ... },
  });

List items that belong to a ChatKit thread.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<thread_id> (in path, required, string) - Identifier of the ChatKit thread whose items are requested.

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - Maximum number of thread items to return. Defaults to 20.

=item * C<order> (in query, optional, string) - Sort order for results by creation time. Defaults to C<desc> .

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - List items created after this thread item ID. Defaults to null for the first
page.

=item * C<before> (in query, optional, string) - List items created before this thread item ID. Defaults to null for the newest
results.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          {
             "attachments" : [
                {
                   "id" : "string",
                   "mime_type" : "string",
                   "name" : "string",
                   "preview_url" : "string",
                   "type" : "image"
                }
             ],
             "content" : [
                {
                   "text" : "string",
                   "type" : "input_text"
                }
             ],
             "created_at" : 0,
             "id" : "string",
             "inference_options" : {
                "model" : "string",
                "tool_choice" : {
                   "id" : "string"
                }
             },
             "object" : "chatkit.thread_item",
             "thread_id" : "string",
             "type" : "chatkit.user_message"
          }
       ],
       "first_id" : "string",
       "has_more" : false,
       "last_id" : "string",
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 ThreadItem

See L<https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference> for details.

=head2 ThreadItemListResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of ThreadItem, required) - A list of items

=item * C<first_id> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required) - Whether there are more items available.

=item * C<last_id> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The type of object returned, must be C<list> .

Allowed values: list

Default: list

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
