=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::containers-container_id-files - Documentation for the /containers/{container_id}/files path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /containers/{container_id}/files

=head3 ListContainerFiles

  $client->list_container_files({
      body => { ... },
  });

List Container files

Lists container files.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<container_id> (in path, required, string)

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - A limit on the number of objects to be returned. Limit can range between 1 and
100, and the default is 20.

Default: 20

=item * C<order> (in query, optional, string) - Sort order by the C<created_at> timestamp of the objects. C<asc> for ascending
order and C<desc> for descending order.

Allowed values: asc, desc

Default: desc

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - A cursor for use in pagination. C<after> is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include after=obj_foo
in order to fetch the next page of the list.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          "{\n    \"id\": \"cfile_682e0e8a43c88191a7978f477a09bdf5\",\n    \"object\": \"container.file\",\n    \"created_at\": 1747848842,\n    \"bytes\": 880,\n    \"container_id\": \"cntr_682e0e7318108198aa783fd921ff305e08e78805b9fdbb04\",\n    \"path\": \"/mnt/data/88e12fa445d32636f190a0b33daed6cb-tsconfig.json\",\n    \"source\": \"user\"\n}\n"
       ],
       "first_id" : "string",
       "has_more" : false,
       "last_id" : "string",
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head2 POST /containers/{container_id}/files

=head3 CreateContainerFile

  $client->create_container_file({
      body => { ... },
  });

Create a Container File

You can send either a multipart/form-data request with the raw file content,
or a JSON request with a file ID.

Creates a container file.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<container_id> (in path, required, string)

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "bytes" : 880,
       "container_id" : "cntr_682e0e7318108198aa783fd921ff305e08e78805b9fdbb04",
       "created_at" : 1747848842,
       "id" : "cfile_682e0e8a43c88191a7978f477a09bdf5",
       "object" : "container.file",
       "path" : "/mnt/data/88e12fa445d32636f190a0b33daed6cb-tsconfig.json",
       "source" : "user"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 ContainerFileListResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of ContainerFileResource, required) - A list of container files.

=item * C<first_id> (string, required) - The ID of the first file in the list.

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required) - Whether there are more files available.

=item * C<last_id> (string, required) - The ID of the last file in the list.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The type of object returned, must be 'list'.

Allowed values: list

=back

=head2 ContainerFileResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<bytes> (integer, required) - Size of the file in bytes.

=item * C<container_id> (string, required) - The container this file belongs to.

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - Unix timestamp (in seconds) when the file was created.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - Unique identifier for the file.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The type of this object (C<container.file>).

=item * C<path> (string, required) - Path of the file in the container.

=item * C<source> (string, required) - Source of the file (e.g., C<user> , C<assistant> ).

=back

=head2 CreateContainerFileBody

Properties:

=over

=item * C<file> (string) - The File object (not file name) to be uploaded.

=item * C<file_id> (string) - Name of the file to create.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
