=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::containers-container_id - Documentation for the /containers/{container_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /containers/{container_id}

=head3 DeleteContainer

  $client->delete_container({
      body => { ... },
  });

Delete Container

Delete a container.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<container_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the container to delete.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

=head2 GET /containers/{container_id}

=head3 RetrieveContainer

  $client->retrieve_container({
      body => { ... },
  });

Retrieve Container

Retrieves a container.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<container_id> (in path, required, string)

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created_at" : 1747844794,
       "expires_after" : {
          "anchor" : "last_active_at",
          "minutes" : 20
       },
       "id" : "cntr_682dfebaacac8198bbfe9c2474fb6f4a085685cbe3cb5863",
       "last_active_at" : 1747844794,
       "memory_limit" : "1g",
       "name" : "My Container",
       "object" : "container",
       "status" : "running"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 ContainerResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - Unix timestamp (in seconds) when the container was created.

=item * C<expires_after> (object) - The container will expire after this time period. The anchor is the reference
point for the expiration. The minutes is the number of minutes after the
anchor before the container expires.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - Unique identifier for the container.

=item * C<last_active_at> (integer) - Unix timestamp (in seconds) when the container was last active.

=item * C<memory_limit> (string) - The memory limit configured for the container.

Allowed values: 1g, 4g, 16g, 64g

=item * C<name> (string, required) - Name of the container.

=item * C<network_policy> (object) - Network access policy for the container.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The type of this object.

=item * C<status> (string, required) - Status of the container (e.g., active, deleted).

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
