=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::containers-container_id-files-file_id - Documentation for the /containers/{container_id}/files/{file_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /containers/{container_id}/files/{file_id}

=head3 DeleteContainerFile

  $client->delete_container_file({
      body => { ... },
  });

Delete Container File

Delete a container file.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<container_id> (in path, required, string)

=item * C<file_id> (in path, required, string)

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

=head2 GET /containers/{container_id}/files/{file_id}

=head3 RetrieveContainerFile

  $client->retrieve_container_file({
      body => { ... },
  });

Retrieve Container File

Retrieves a container file.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<container_id> (in path, required, string)

=item * C<file_id> (in path, required, string)

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "bytes" : 880,
       "container_id" : "cntr_682e0e7318108198aa783fd921ff305e08e78805b9fdbb04",
       "created_at" : 1747848842,
       "id" : "cfile_682e0e8a43c88191a7978f477a09bdf5",
       "object" : "container.file",
       "path" : "/mnt/data/88e12fa445d32636f190a0b33daed6cb-tsconfig.json",
       "source" : "user"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 ContainerFileResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<bytes> (integer, required) - Size of the file in bytes.

=item * C<container_id> (string, required) - The container this file belongs to.

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - Unix timestamp (in seconds) when the file was created.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - Unique identifier for the file.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The type of this object (C<container.file>).

=item * C<path> (string, required) - Path of the file in the container.

=item * C<source> (string, required) - Source of the file (e.g., C<user> , C<assistant> ).

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
