=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::conversations-conversation_id-items-item_id - Documentation for the /conversations/{conversation_id}/items/{item_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /conversations/{conversation_id}/items/{item_id}

=head3 deleteConversationItem

  $client->delete_conversation_item({
      body => { ... },
  });

Delete an item from a conversation with the given IDs.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<conversation_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the conversation that contains the item.

=item * C<item_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the item to delete.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created_at" : 0,
       "id" : "string",
       "metadata" : null,
       "object" : "conversation"
    }

=head2 GET /conversations/{conversation_id}/items/{item_id}

=head3 getConversationItem

  $client->get_conversation_item({
      body => { ... },
  });

Get a single item from a conversation with the given IDs.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<conversation_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the conversation that contains the item.

=item * C<item_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the item to retrieve.

=item * C<include> (in query, optional, array) - Additional fields to include in the response. See the C<include> parameter for
L<listing Conversation items above|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/conversations/list-items#conversations_list_items-include>
for more information.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "content" : [
          {
             "text" : "string",
             "type" : "input_text"
          }
       ],
       "id" : "string",
       "phase" : "commentary",
       "role" : "unknown",
       "status" : "in_progress",
       "type" : "message"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 ConversationItem

A single item within a conversation. The set of possible types are the same as
the C<output> type of a
L<Response object|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/responses/object#responses/object-output>
.

=head2 ConversationResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The time at which the conversation was created, measured in seconds since the
Unix epoch.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The unique ID of the conversation.

=item * C<metadata> (unknown, required) - Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format, and querying for objects via API or the dashboard. Keys are strings
with a maximum length of 64 characters. Values are strings with a maximum
length of 512 characters.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<conversation> .

Allowed values: conversation

Default: conversation

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
