=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::conversations - Documentation for the /conversations path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 POST /conversations

=head3 createConversation

  $client->create_conversation({
      body => { ... },
  });

Create a conversation.

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created_at" : 0,
       "id" : "string",
       "metadata" : null,
       "object" : "conversation"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 ConversationResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The time at which the conversation was created, measured in seconds since the
Unix epoch.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The unique ID of the conversation.

=item * C<metadata> (unknown, required) - Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format, and querying for objects via API or the dashboard. Keys are strings
with a maximum length of 64 characters. Values are strings with a maximum
length of 512 characters.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<conversation> .

Allowed values: conversation

Default: conversation

=back

=head2 CreateConversationBody

Properties:

=over

=item * C<items> (anyOf)

=item * C<metadata> (anyOf)

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
