=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::files-file_id - Documentation for the /files/{file_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /files/{file_id}

=head3 deleteFile

  $client->delete_file({
      body => { ... },
  });

Delete a file and remove it from all vector stores.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<file_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the file to use for this request.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "deleted" : false,
       "id" : "string",
       "object" : "file"
    }

=head2 GET /files/{file_id}

=head3 retrieveFile

  $client->retrieve_file({
      body => { ... },
  });

Returns information about a specific file.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<file_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the file to use for this request.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    "{\n  \"id\": \"file-abc123\",\n  \"object\": \"file\",\n  \"bytes\": 120000,\n  \"created_at\": 1677610602,\n  \"expires_at\": 1680202602,\n  \"filename\": \"salesOverview.pdf\",\n  \"purpose\": \"assistants\",\n}\n"

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 DeleteFileResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<deleted> (boolean, required)

=item * C<id> (string, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

Allowed values: file

=back

=head2 OpenAIFile

Properties:

=over

=item * C<bytes> (integer, required) - The size of the file, in bytes.

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the file was created.

=item * C<expires_at> (integer) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the file will expire.

=item * C<filename> (string, required) - The name of the file.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The file identifier, which can be referenced in the API endpoints.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<file> .

Allowed values: file

=item * C<purpose> (string, required) - The intended purpose of the file. Supported values are C<assistants> ,
C<assistants_output> , C<batch> , C<batch_output> , C<fine-tune> ,
C<fine-tune-results> , C<vision> , and C<user_data> .

Allowed values: assistants, assistants_output, batch, batch_output, fine-tune, fine-tune-results, vision, user_data

=item * C<status> (string, required) - Deprecated. The current status of the file, which can be either C<uploaded> ,
C<processed> , or C<error> .

Allowed values: uploaded, processed, error

=item * C<status_details> (string) - Deprecated. For details on why a fine-tuning training file failed validation,
see the C<error> field on C<fine_tuning.job> .

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
