=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::fine_tuning-checkpoints-fine_tuned_model_checkpoint-permissions-permission_id - Documentation for the /fine_tuning/checkpoints/{fine_tuned_model_checkpoint}/permissions/{permission_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /fine_tuning/checkpoints/{fine_tuned_model_checkpoint}/permissions/{permission_id}

=head3 deleteFineTuningCheckpointPermission

  $client->delete_fine_tuning_checkpoint_permission({
      body => { ... },
  });

B<NOTE:> This endpoint requires an L<admin API key|../admin-api-keys> .

Organization owners can use this endpoint to delete a permission for a
fine-tuned model checkpoint.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<fine_tuned_model_checkpoint> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the fine-tuned model checkpoint to delete a permission for.

=item * C<permission_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the fine-tuned model checkpoint permission to delete.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "deleted" : false,
       "id" : "string",
       "object" : "checkpoint.permission"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 DeleteFineTuningCheckpointPermissionResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<deleted> (boolean, required) - Whether the fine-tuned model checkpoint permission was successfully deleted.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The ID of the fine-tuned model checkpoint permission that was deleted.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always "checkpoint.permission".

Allowed values: checkpoint.permission

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
