=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::fine_tuning-jobs-fine_tuning_job_id-checkpoints - Documentation for the /fine_tuning/jobs/{fine_tuning_job_id}/checkpoints path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /fine_tuning/jobs/{fine_tuning_job_id}/checkpoints

=head3 listFineTuningJobCheckpoints

  $client->list_fine_tuning_job_checkpoints({
      body => { ... },
  });

List checkpoints for a fine-tuning job.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<fine_tuning_job_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the fine-tuning job to get checkpoints for.

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - Identifier for the last checkpoint ID from the previous pagination request.

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - Number of checkpoints to retrieve.

Default: 10

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          "{\n  \"object\": \"fine_tuning.job.checkpoint\",\n  \"id\": \"ftckpt_qtZ5Gyk4BLq1SfLFWp3RtO3P\",\n  \"created_at\": 1712211699,\n  \"fine_tuned_model_checkpoint\": \"ft:gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18:my-org:custom_suffix:9ABel2dg:ckpt-step-88\",\n  \"fine_tuning_job_id\": \"ftjob-fpbNQ3H1GrMehXRf8cO97xTN\",\n  \"metrics\": {\n    \"step\": 88,\n    \"train_loss\": 0.478,\n    \"train_mean_token_accuracy\": 0.924,\n    \"valid_loss\": 10.112,\n    \"valid_mean_token_accuracy\": 0.145,\n    \"full_valid_loss\": 0.567,\n    \"full_valid_mean_token_accuracy\": 0.944\n  },\n  \"step_number\": 88\n}\n"
       ],
       "first_id" : "string",
       "has_more" : false,
       "last_id" : "string",
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 FineTuningJobCheckpoint

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the checkpoint was created.

=item * C<fine_tuned_model_checkpoint> (string, required) - The name of the fine-tuned checkpoint model that is created.

=item * C<fine_tuning_job_id> (string, required) - The name of the fine-tuning job that this checkpoint was created from.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The checkpoint identifier, which can be referenced in the API endpoints.

=item * C<metrics> (object, required) - Metrics at the step number during the fine-tuning job.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always "fine_tuning.job.checkpoint".

Allowed values: fine_tuning.job.checkpoint

=item * C<step_number> (integer, required) - The step number that the checkpoint was created at.

=back

=head2 ListFineTuningJobCheckpointsResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of FineTuningJobCheckpoint, required)

=item * C<first_id> (anyOf)

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required)

=item * C<last_id> (anyOf)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

Allowed values: list

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
