=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::fine_tuning-jobs-fine_tuning_job_id-events - Documentation for the /fine_tuning/jobs/{fine_tuning_job_id}/events path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /fine_tuning/jobs/{fine_tuning_job_id}/events

=head3 listFineTuningEvents

  $client->list_fine_tuning_events({
      body => { ... },
  });

Get status updates for a fine-tuning job.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<fine_tuning_job_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the fine-tuning job to get events for.

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - Identifier for the last event from the previous pagination request.

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - Number of events to retrieve.

Default: 20

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          "{\n  \"object\": \"fine_tuning.job.event\",\n  \"id\": \"ftevent-abc123\"\n  \"created_at\": 1677610602,\n  \"level\": \"info\",\n  \"message\": \"Created fine-tuning job\",\n  \"data\": {},\n  \"type\": \"message\"\n}\n"
       ],
       "has_more" : false,
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 FineTuningJobEvent

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the fine-tuning job was created.

=item * C<data> (object) - The data associated with the event.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The object identifier.

=item * C<level> (string, required) - The log level of the event.

Allowed values: info, warn, error

=item * C<message> (string, required) - The message of the event.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always "fine_tuning.job.event".

Allowed values: fine_tuning.job.event

=item * C<type> (string) - The type of event.

Allowed values: message, metrics

=back

=head2 ListFineTuningJobEventsResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of FineTuningJobEvent, required)

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

Allowed values: list

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
