=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::fine_tuning-checkpoints-fine_tuned_model_checkpoint-permissions - Documentation for the /fine_tuning/checkpoints/{fine_tuned_model_checkpoint}/permissions path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /fine_tuning/checkpoints/{fine_tuned_model_checkpoint}/permissions

=head3 listFineTuningCheckpointPermissions

  $client->list_fine_tuning_checkpoint_permissions({
      body => { ... },
  });

B<NOTE:> This endpoint requires an L<admin API key|../admin-api-keys> .

Organization owners can use this endpoint to view all permissions for a
fine-tuned model checkpoint.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<fine_tuned_model_checkpoint> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the fine-tuned model checkpoint to get permissions for.

=item * C<project_id> (in query, optional, string) - The ID of the project to get permissions for.

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - Identifier for the last permission ID from the previous pagination request.

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - Number of permissions to retrieve.

Default: 10

=item * C<order> (in query, optional, string) - The order in which to retrieve permissions.

Allowed values: ascending, descending

Default: descending

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          "{\n  \"object\": \"checkpoint.permission\",\n  \"id\": \"cp_zc4Q7MP6XxulcVzj4MZdwsAB\",\n  \"created_at\": 1712211699,\n  \"project_id\": \"proj_abGMw1llN8IrBb6SvvY5A1iH\"\n}\n"
       ],
       "first_id" : "string",
       "has_more" : false,
       "last_id" : "string",
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head2 POST /fine_tuning/checkpoints/{fine_tuned_model_checkpoint}/permissions

=head3 createFineTuningCheckpointPermission

  $client->create_fine_tuning_checkpoint_permission({
      body => { ... },
  });

B<NOTE:> Calling this endpoint requires an L<admin API key|../admin-api-keys>
.

This enables organization owners to share fine-tuned models with other
projects in their organization.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<fine_tuned_model_checkpoint> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the fine-tuned model checkpoint to create a permission for.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          "{\n  \"object\": \"checkpoint.permission\",\n  \"id\": \"cp_zc4Q7MP6XxulcVzj4MZdwsAB\",\n  \"created_at\": 1712211699,\n  \"project_id\": \"proj_abGMw1llN8IrBb6SvvY5A1iH\"\n}\n"
       ],
       "first_id" : "string",
       "has_more" : false,
       "last_id" : "string",
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 CreateFineTuningCheckpointPermissionRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<project_ids> (array of string, required) - The project identifiers to grant access to.

=back

=head2 FineTuningCheckpointPermission

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the permission was created.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The permission identifier, which can be referenced in the API endpoints.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always "checkpoint.permission".

Allowed values: checkpoint.permission

=item * C<project_id> (string, required) - The project identifier that the permission is for.

=back

=head2 ListFineTuningCheckpointPermissionResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of FineTuningCheckpointPermission, required)

=item * C<first_id> (anyOf)

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required)

=item * C<last_id> (anyOf)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

Allowed values: list

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
