=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::models-model - Documentation for the /models/{model} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /models/{model}

=head3 deleteModel

  $client->delete_model({
      body => { ... },
  });

Delete a fine-tuned model. You must have the Owner role in your organization
to delete a model.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<model> (in path, required, string) - The model to delete

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "deleted" : false,
       "id" : "string",
       "object" : "string"
    }

=head2 GET /models/{model}

=head3 retrieveModel

  $client->retrieve_model({
      body => { ... },
  });

Retrieves a model instance, providing basic information about the model such
as the owner and permissioning.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<model> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the model to use for this request

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created" : 1686935002,
       "id" : "VAR_chat_model_id",
       "object" : "model",
       "owned_by" : "openai"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 DeleteModelResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<deleted> (boolean, required)

=item * C<id> (string, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

=back

=head2 Model

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) when the model was created.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The model identifier, which can be referenced in the API endpoints.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always "model".

Allowed values: model

=item * C<owned_by> (string, required) - The organization that owns the model.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
