=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-projects-project_id-spend_alerts - Documentation for the /organization/projects/{project_id}/spend_alerts path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /organization/projects/{project_id}/spend_alerts

=head3 list-project-spend-alerts

  $client->list_project_spend_alerts({
      body => { ... },
  });

Lists project spend alerts.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<project_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the project to inspect.

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - A limit on the number of spend alerts to return. Defaults to 20.

=item * C<order> (in query, optional, string) - Sort order for the returned spend alerts.

Allowed values: asc, desc

Default: asc

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - Cursor for pagination. Provide the ID of the last spend alert from the
previous response to fetch the next page.

=item * C<before> (in query, optional, string) - Cursor for pagination. Provide the ID of the first spend alert from the
previous response to fetch the previous page.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Project spend alerts listed successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          "{\n    \"id\": \"alert_abc123\",\n    \"object\": \"project.spend_alert\",\n    \"threshold_amount\": 100000,\n    \"currency\": \"USD\",\n    \"interval\": \"month\",\n    \"notification_channel\": {\n        \"type\": \"email\",\n        \"recipients\": [\"finance@example.com\"],\n        \"subject_prefix\": \"OpenAI spend alert\"\n    }\n}\n"
       ],
       "first_id" : "string",
       "has_more" : false,
       "last_id" : "string",
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head2 POST /organization/projects/{project_id}/spend_alerts

=head3 create-project-spend-alert

  $client->create_project_spend_alert({
      body => { ... },
  });

Creates a project spend alert.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<project_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the project to update.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Project spend alert created successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "currency" : "USD",
       "id" : "alert_abc123",
       "interval" : "month",
       "notification_channel" : {
          "recipients" : [
             "finance@example.com"
          ],
          "subject_prefix" : "OpenAI spend alert",
          "type" : "email"
       },
       "object" : "project.spend_alert",
       "threshold_amount" : 100000
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 CreateSpendAlertBody

Properties:

=over

=item * C<currency> (string, required) - The currency for the threshold amount.

Allowed values: USD

=item * C<interval> (string, required) - The time interval for evaluating spend against the threshold.

Allowed values: month

=item * C<notification_channel> (SpendAlertNotificationChannel, required)

See L</SpendAlertNotificationChannel> below for shape.

=item * C<threshold_amount> (integer, required) - The alert threshold amount, in cents.

=back

=head2 ProjectSpendAlert

Properties:

=over

=item * C<currency> (string, required) - The currency for the threshold amount.

Allowed values: USD

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

=item * C<interval> (string, required) - The time interval for evaluating spend against the threshold.

Allowed values: month

=item * C<notification_channel> (SpendAlertNotificationChannel, required)

See L</SpendAlertNotificationChannel> below for shape.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<project.spend_alert> .

Allowed values: project.spend_alert

=item * C<threshold_amount> (integer, required) - The alert threshold amount, in cents.

=back

=head2 ProjectSpendAlertListResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of ProjectSpendAlert, required) - Spend alerts returned in the current page.

=item * C<first_id> (anyOf, required) - The ID of the first spend alert in this page.

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required) - Whether more spend alerts are available when paginating.

=item * C<last_id> (anyOf, required) - The ID of the last spend alert in this page.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - Always C<list> .

Allowed values: list

=back

=head2 SpendAlertNotificationChannel

Properties:

=over

=item * C<recipients> (array of string, required) - Email addresses that receive the spend alert notification.

=item * C<subject_prefix> (anyOf) - Optional subject prefix for alert emails.

=item * C<type> (string, required) - The notification channel type. Currently only C<email> is supported.

Allowed values: email

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
