=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-projects-project_id-groups-group_id - Documentation for the /organization/projects/{project_id}/groups/{group_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /organization/projects/{project_id}/groups/{group_id}

=head3 remove-project-group

  $client->remove_project_group({
      body => { ... },
  });

Revokes a group's access to a project.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<project_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the project to update.

=item * C<group_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the group to remove from the project.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Group removed from the project successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "deleted" : true,
       "object" : "project.group.deleted"
    }

=head2 GET /organization/projects/{project_id}/groups/{group_id}

=head3 retrieve-project-group

  $client->retrieve_project_group({
      body => { ... },
  });

Retrieves a project's group.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<project_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the project to inspect.

=item * C<group_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the group to retrieve.

=item * C<group_type> (in query, optional, string) - The type of group to retrieve.

Allowed values: group, tenant_group

Default: group

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Project group retrieved successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created_at" : 1711471533,
       "group_id" : "group_01J1F8ABCDXYZ",
       "group_name" : "Support Team",
       "group_type" : "group",
       "object" : "project.group",
       "project_id" : "proj_abc123"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 ProjectGroup

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - Unix timestamp (in seconds) when the group was granted project access.

=item * C<group_id> (string, required) - Identifier of the group that has access to the project.

=item * C<group_name> (string, required) - Display name of the group.

=item * C<group_type> (string, required) - The type of the group.

Allowed values: group, tenant_group

=item * C<object> (string, required) - Always C<project.group> .

Allowed values: project.group

=item * C<project_id> (string, required) - Identifier of the project.

=back

=head2 ProjectGroupDeletedResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<deleted> (boolean, required) - Whether the group membership in the project was removed.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - Always C<project.group.deleted> .

Allowed values: project.group.deleted

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
