=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-usage-vector_stores - Documentation for the /organization/usage/vector_stores path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /organization/usage/vector_stores

=head3 usage-vector-stores

  $client->usage_vector_stores({
      body => { ... },
  });

Get vector stores usage details for the organization.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<start_time> (in query, required, integer) - Start time (Unix seconds) of the query time range, inclusive.

=item * C<end_time> (in query, optional, integer) - End time (Unix seconds) of the query time range, exclusive.

=item * C<bucket_width> (in query, optional, string) - Width of each time bucket in response. Currently C<1m> , C<1h> and C<1d> are
supported, default to C<1d> .

Allowed values: 1m, 1h, 1d

Default: 1d

=item * C<project_ids> (in query, optional, array) - Return only usage for these projects.

=item * C<group_by> (in query, optional, array) - Group the usage data by the specified fields. Support fields include
C<project_id> .

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - Specifies the number of buckets to return. - C<bucket_width=1d> : default: 7,
max: 31 - C<bucket_width=1h> : default: 24, max: 168 - C<bucket_width=1m> :
default: 60, max: 1440

=item * C<page> (in query, optional, string) - A cursor for use in pagination. Corresponding to the C<next_page> field from
the previous response.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Usage data retrieved successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          {
             "end_time" : 0,
             "object" : "bucket",
             "results" : [
                "{\n    \"object\": \"organization.usage.completions.result\",\n    \"input_tokens\": 5000,\n    \"output_tokens\": 1000,\n    \"input_cached_tokens\": 4000,\n    \"input_audio_tokens\": 300,\n    \"output_audio_tokens\": 200,\n    \"num_model_requests\": 5,\n    \"project_id\": \"proj_abc\",\n    \"user_id\": \"user-abc\",\n    \"api_key_id\": \"key_abc\",\n    \"model\": \"gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18\",\n    \"batch\": false,\n    \"service_tier\": \"default\"\n}\n"
             ],
             "start_time" : 0
          }
       ],
       "has_more" : false,
       "next_page" : "string",
       "object" : "page"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 UsageResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of UsageTimeBucket, required)

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required)

=item * C<next_page> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

Allowed values: page

=back

=head2 UsageTimeBucket

Properties:

=over

=item * C<end_time> (integer, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

Allowed values: bucket

=item * C<results> (array of object, required)

=item * C<start_time> (integer, required)

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
