=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-audit_logs - Documentation for the /organization/audit_logs path.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes the API endpoint at C</organization/audit_logs>.

=head1 PATHS


=head2 C<GET /organization/audit_logs>

List audit logs


List user actions and configuration changes within this organization.



=head3 Operation ID

C<list-audit-logs>

    $client->list-audit-logs( ... );

=head3 Parameters

=over 4

=item * C<effective_at> (in query) (Optional) - Return only events whose `effective_at` (Unix seconds) is in this range.

Type: C<object>



=item * C<project_ids[]> (in query) (Optional) - Return only events for these projects.

Type: C<array>



=item * C<event_types[]> (in query) (Optional) - Return only events with a `type` in one of these values. For example, `project.created`. For all options, see the documentation for the [audit log object](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/audit-logs/object).

Type: C<array>



=item * C<actor_ids[]> (in query) (Optional) - Return only events performed by these actors. Can be a user ID, a service account ID, or an api key tracking ID.

Type: C<array>



=item * C<actor_emails[]> (in query) (Optional) - Return only events performed by users with these emails.

Type: C<array>



=item * C<resource_ids[]> (in query) (Optional) - Return only events performed on these targets. For example, a project ID updated.

Type: C<array>



=item * C<limit> (in query) (Optional) - A limit on the number of objects to be returned. Limit can range between 1 and 100, and the default is 20.


Type: C<integer>


Default: C<20>


=item * C<after> (in query) (Optional) - A cursor for use in pagination. `after` is an object ID that defines your place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100 objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include after=obj_foo in order to fetch the next page of the list.


Type: C<string>



=item * C<before> (in query) (Optional) - A cursor for use in pagination. `before` is an object ID that defines your place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100 objects, starting with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include before=obj_foo in order to fetch the previous page of the list.


Type: C<string>



=back


=head3 Responses


=head4 Status Code: C<200>

Audit logs listed successfully.


=head4 Content Types:

=over 4


=item * C<application/json>

Example (See the L<OpenAI spec for more detail|https://github.com/openai/openai-openapi/blob/master/openapi.yaml>):

    {
       "data" : [
          "{\n    \"id\": \"req_xxx_20240101\",\n    \"type\": \"api_key.created\",\n    \"effective_at\": 1720804090,\n    \"actor\": {\n        \"type\": \"session\",\n        \"session\": {\n            \"user\": {\n                \"id\": \"user-xxx\",\n                \"email\": \"user@example.com\"\n            },\n            \"ip_address\": \"127.0.0.1\",\n            \"user_agent\": \"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/91.0.4472.124 Safari/537.36\"\n        }\n    },\n    \"api_key.created\": {\n        \"id\": \"key_xxxx\",\n        \"data\": {\n            \"scopes\": [\"resource.operation\"]\n        }\n    }\n}\n"
       ],
       "first_id" : "audit_log-defb456h8dks",
       "last_id" : "audit_log-hnbkd8s93s"
    }


=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2025 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut