=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-projects-project_id-rate_limits - Documentation for the /organization/projects/{project_id}/rate_limits path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /organization/projects/{project_id}/rate_limits

=head3 list-project-rate-limits

  $client->list_project_rate_limits({
      body => { ... },
  });

Returns the rate limits per model for a project.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<project_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the project.

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - A limit on the number of objects to be returned. The default is 100.

Default: 100

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - A cursor for use in pagination. C<after> is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include after=obj_foo
in order to fetch the next page of the list.

=item * C<before> (in query, optional, string) - A cursor for use in pagination. C<before> is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, beginning with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include
before=obj_foo in order to fetch the previous page of the list.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Project rate limits listed successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          "{\n    \"object\": \"project.rate_limit\",\n    \"id\": \"rl_ada\",\n    \"model\": \"ada\",\n    \"max_requests_per_1_minute\": 600,\n    \"max_tokens_per_1_minute\": 150000,\n    \"max_images_per_1_minute\": 10\n}\n"
       ],
       "first_id" : "string",
       "has_more" : false,
       "last_id" : "string",
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 ProjectRateLimit

Properties:

=over

=item * C<batch_1_day_max_input_tokens> (integer) - The maximum batch input tokens per day. Only present for relevant models.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

=item * C<max_audio_megabytes_per_1_minute> (integer) - The maximum audio megabytes per minute. Only present for relevant models.

=item * C<max_images_per_1_minute> (integer) - The maximum images per minute. Only present for relevant models.

=item * C<max_requests_per_1_day> (integer) - The maximum requests per day. Only present for relevant models.

=item * C<max_requests_per_1_minute> (integer, required) - The maximum requests per minute.

=item * C<max_tokens_per_1_minute> (integer, required) - The maximum tokens per minute.

=item * C<model> (string, required) - The model this rate limit applies to.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<project.rate_limit>

Allowed values: project.rate_limit

=back

=head2 ProjectRateLimitListResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of ProjectRateLimit, required)

=item * C<first_id> (anyOf)

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required)

=item * C<last_id> (anyOf)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

Allowed values: list

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
