=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-invites-invite_id - Documentation for the /organization/invites/{invite_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /organization/invites/{invite_id}

=head3 delete-invite

  $client->delete_invite({
      body => { ... },
  });

Delete an invite. If the invite has already been accepted, it cannot be
deleted.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<invite_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the invite to delete.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Invite deleted successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "deleted" : false,
       "id" : "string",
       "object" : "organization.invite.deleted"
    }

=head2 GET /organization/invites/{invite_id}

=head3 retrieve-invite

  $client->retrieve_invite({
      body => { ... },
  });

Retrieves an invite.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<invite_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the invite to retrieve.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Invite retrieved successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "accepted_at" : 1711471533,
       "created_at" : 1711471533,
       "email" : "user@example.com",
       "expires_at" : 1711471533,
       "id" : "invite-abc",
       "object" : "organization.invite",
       "projects" : [
          {
             "id" : "project-xyz",
             "role" : "member"
          }
       ],
       "role" : "owner",
       "status" : "accepted"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 Invite

Properties:

=over

=item * C<accepted_at> (anyOf) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the invite was accepted.

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the invite was sent.

=item * C<email> (string, required) - The email address of the individual to whom the invite was sent

=item * C<expires_at> (anyOf) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the invite expires.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<organization.invite>

Allowed values: organization.invite

=item * C<projects> (array of object, required) - The projects that were granted membership upon acceptance of the invite.

=item * C<role> (string, required) - C<owner> or C<reader>

Allowed values: owner, reader

=item * C<status> (string, required) - C<accepted> ,C<expired>, or C<pending>

Allowed values: accepted, expired, pending

=back

=head2 InviteDeleteResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<deleted> (boolean, required)

=item * C<id> (string, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<organization.invite.deleted>

Allowed values: organization.invite.deleted

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
