=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-usage-completions - Documentation for the /organization/usage/completions path.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes the API endpoint at C</organization/usage/completions>.

=head1 PATHS


=head2 C<GET /organization/usage/completions>

Get completions usage details for the organization.



=head3 Operation ID

C<usage-completions>

    $client->usage-completions( ... );

=head3 Parameters

=over 4

=item * C<start_time> (in query) (Required) - Start time (Unix seconds) of the query time range, inclusive.

Type: C<integer>



=item * C<end_time> (in query) (Optional) - End time (Unix seconds) of the query time range, exclusive.

Type: C<integer>



=item * C<bucket_width> (in query) (Optional) - Width of each time bucket in response. Currently `1m`, `1h` and `1d` are supported, default to `1d`.

Type: C<string>

Allowed values: C<1m, 1h, 1d>


Default: C<1d>


=item * C<project_ids> (in query) (Optional) - Return only usage for these projects.

Type: C<array>



=item * C<user_ids> (in query) (Optional) - Return only usage for these users.

Type: C<array>



=item * C<api_key_ids> (in query) (Optional) - Return only usage for these API keys.

Type: C<array>



=item * C<models> (in query) (Optional) - Return only usage for these models.

Type: C<array>



=item * C<batch> (in query) (Optional) - If `true`, return batch jobs only. If `false`, return non-batch jobs only. By default, return both.


Type: C<boolean>



=item * C<group_by> (in query) (Optional) - Group the usage data by the specified fields. Support fields include `project_id`, `user_id`, `api_key_id`, `model`, `batch` or any combination of them.

Type: C<array>



=item * C<limit> (in query) (Optional) - Specifies the number of buckets to return.
- `bucket_width=1d`: default: 7, max: 31
- `bucket_width=1h`: default: 24, max: 168
- `bucket_width=1m`: default: 60, max: 1440


Type: C<integer>



=item * C<page> (in query) (Optional) - A cursor for use in pagination. Corresponding to the `next_page` field from the previous response.

Type: C<string>



=back


=head3 Responses


=head4 Status Code: C<200>

Usage data retrieved successfully.


=head4 Content Types:

=over 4


=item * C<application/json>

Example (See the L<OpenAI spec for more detail|https://github.com/openai/openai-openapi/blob/master/openapi.yaml>):

    {
       "data" : [
          {
             "result" : [
                null
             ]
          }
       ]
    }


=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2025 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut