=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-groups-group_id-users - Documentation for the /organization/groups/{group_id}/users path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /organization/groups/{group_id}/users

=head3 list-group-users

  $client->list_group_users({
      body => { ... },
  });

Lists the users assigned to a group.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<group_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the group to inspect.

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - A limit on the number of users to be returned. Limit can range between 0 and
1000, and the default is 100.

Default: 100

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - A cursor for use in pagination. Provide the ID of the last user from the
previous list response to retrieve the next page.

=item * C<order> (in query, optional, string) - Specifies the sort order of users in the list.

Allowed values: asc, desc

Default: desc

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Group users listed successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          {
             "email" : "ada@example.com",
             "id" : "user_abc123",
             "name" : "Ada Lovelace"
          }
       ],
       "has_more" : false,
       "next" : null,
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head2 POST /organization/groups/{group_id}/users

=head3 add-group-user

  $client->add_group_user({
      body => { ... },
  });

Adds a user to a group.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<group_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the group to update.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - User added to the group successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "group_id" : "group_01J1F8ABCDXYZ",
       "object" : "group.user",
       "user_id" : "user_abc123"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 CreateGroupUserBody

Properties:

=over

=item * C<user_id> (string, required) - Identifier of the user to add to the group.

=back

=head2 GroupUser

Properties:

=over

=item * C<email> (anyOf, required) - The email address of the user.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints

=item * C<name> (string, required) - The name of the user.

=back

=head2 GroupUserAssignment

Properties:

=over

=item * C<group_id> (string, required) - Identifier of the group the user was added to.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - Always C<group.user> .

Allowed values: group.user

=item * C<user_id> (string, required) - Identifier of the user that was added.

=back

=head2 UserListResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of GroupUser, required) - Users in the current page.

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required) - Whether more users are available when paginating.

=item * C<next> (anyOf, required) - Cursor to fetch the next page of results, or C<null> when no further users are
available.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - Always C<list> .

Allowed values: list

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
