=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-roles - Documentation for the /organization/roles path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /organization/roles

=head3 list-roles

  $client->list_roles({
      body => { ... },
  });

Lists the roles configured for the organization.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - A limit on the number of roles to return. Defaults to 1000.

Default: 1000

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - Cursor for pagination. Provide the value from the previous response's C<next>
field to continue listing roles.

=item * C<order> (in query, optional, string) - Sort order for the returned roles.

Allowed values: asc, desc

Default: asc

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Roles listed successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          {
             "description" : "Allows managing organization groups",
             "id" : "role_01J1F8ROLE01",
             "name" : "API Group Manager",
             "object" : "role",
             "permissions" : [
                "api.groups.read",
                "api.groups.write"
             ],
             "predefined_role" : false,
             "resource_type" : "api.organization"
          }
       ],
       "has_more" : false,
       "next" : null,
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head2 POST /organization/roles

=head3 create-role

  $client->create_role({
      body => { ... },
  });

Creates a custom role for the organization.

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Role created successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "description" : "Allows managing organization groups",
       "id" : "role_01J1F8ROLE01",
       "name" : "API Group Manager",
       "object" : "role",
       "permissions" : [
          "api.groups.read",
          "api.groups.write"
       ],
       "predefined_role" : false,
       "resource_type" : "api.organization"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 PublicCreateOrganizationRoleBody

Properties:

=over

=item * C<description> (anyOf) - Optional description of the role.

=item * C<permissions> (array of string, required) - Permissions to grant to the role.

=item * C<role_name> (string, required) - Unique name for the role.

=back

=head2 PublicRoleListResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of Role, required) - Roles returned in the current page.

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required) - Whether more roles are available when paginating.

=item * C<next> (anyOf, required) - Cursor to fetch the next page of results, or C<null> when there are no
additional roles.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - Always C<list> .

Allowed values: list

=back

=head2 Role

Properties:

=over

=item * C<description> (anyOf, required) - Optional description of the role.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - Identifier for the role.

=item * C<name> (string, required) - Unique name for the role.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - Always C<role> .

Allowed values: role

=item * C<permissions> (array of string, required) - Permissions granted by the role.

=item * C<predefined_role> (boolean, required) - Whether the role is predefined and managed by OpenAI.

=item * C<resource_type> (string, required) - Resource type the role is bound to (for example C<api.organization> or
C<api.project> ).

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
