=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-projects-project_id-api_keys - Documentation for the /organization/projects/{project_id}/api_keys path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /organization/projects/{project_id}/api_keys

=head3 list-project-api-keys

  $client->list_project_api_keys({
      body => { ... },
  });

Returns a list of API keys in the project.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<project_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the project.

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - A limit on the number of objects to be returned. Limit can range between 1 and
100, and the default is 20.

Default: 20

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - A cursor for use in pagination. C<after> is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include after=obj_foo
in order to fetch the next page of the list.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Project API keys listed successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          "{\n    \"object\": \"organization.project.api_key\",\n    \"redacted_value\": \"sk-abc...def\",\n    \"name\": \"My API Key\",\n    \"created_at\": 1711471533,\n    \"last_used_at\": 1711471534,\n    \"id\": \"key_abc\",\n    \"owner\": {\n        \"type\": \"user\",\n        \"user\": {\n            \"id\": \"user_abc\",\n            \"name\": \"First Last\",\n            \"email\": \"user@example.com\",\n            \"role\": \"owner\",\n            \"created_at\": 1711471533\n        }\n    }\n}\n"
       ],
       "first_id" : "string",
       "has_more" : false,
       "last_id" : "string",
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 ProjectApiKey

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the API key was created

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints

=item * C<last_used_at> (anyOf, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the API key was last used.

=item * C<name> (string, required) - The name of the API key

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<organization.project.api_key>

Allowed values: organization.project.api_key

=item * C<owner> (object, required)

=item * C<redacted_value> (string, required) - The redacted value of the API key

=back

=head2 ProjectApiKeyListResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of ProjectApiKey, required)

=item * C<first_id> (anyOf)

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required)

=item * C<last_id> (anyOf)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

Allowed values: list

=back

=head2 ProjectApiKeyOwnerServiceAccount

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the service account was created.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints

=item * C<name> (string, required) - The name of the service account.

=item * C<role> (string, required) - The service account's project role.

=back

=head2 ProjectApiKeyOwnerUser

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the user was created.

=item * C<email> (string, required) - The email address of the user.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints

=item * C<name> (string, required) - The name of the user.

=item * C<role> (string, required) - The user's project role.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
