=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-projects-project_id-rate_limits-rate_limit_id - Documentation for the /organization/projects/{project_id}/rate_limits/{rate_limit_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 POST /organization/projects/{project_id}/rate_limits/{rate_limit_id}

=head3 update-project-rate-limits

  $client->update_project_rate_limits({
      body => { ... },
  });

Updates a project rate limit.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<project_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the project.

=item * C<rate_limit_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the rate limit.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Project rate limit updated successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "id" : "rl_ada",
       "max_images_per_1_minute" : 10,
       "max_requests_per_1_minute" : 600,
       "max_tokens_per_1_minute" : 150000,
       "model" : "ada",
       "object" : "project.rate_limit"
    }

B<400 - Error response for various conditions.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "error" : {
          "code" : "string",
          "message" : "string",
          "param" : "string",
          "type" : "string"
       }
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 Error

Properties:

=over

=item * C<code> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<message> (string, required)

=item * C<param> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<type> (string, required)

=back

=head2 ErrorResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<error> (Error, required)

See L</Error> below for shape.

=back

=head2 ProjectRateLimit

Properties:

=over

=item * C<batch_1_day_max_input_tokens> (integer) - The maximum batch input tokens per day. Only present for relevant models.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

=item * C<max_audio_megabytes_per_1_minute> (integer) - The maximum audio megabytes per minute. Only present for relevant models.

=item * C<max_images_per_1_minute> (integer) - The maximum images per minute. Only present for relevant models.

=item * C<max_requests_per_1_day> (integer) - The maximum requests per day. Only present for relevant models.

=item * C<max_requests_per_1_minute> (integer, required) - The maximum requests per minute.

=item * C<max_tokens_per_1_minute> (integer, required) - The maximum tokens per minute.

=item * C<model> (string, required) - The model this rate limit applies to.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<project.rate_limit>

Allowed values: project.rate_limit

=back

=head2 ProjectRateLimitUpdateRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<batch_1_day_max_input_tokens> (integer) - The maximum batch input tokens per day. Only relevant for certain models.

=item * C<max_audio_megabytes_per_1_minute> (integer) - The maximum audio megabytes per minute. Only relevant for certain models.

=item * C<max_images_per_1_minute> (integer) - The maximum images per minute. Only relevant for certain models.

=item * C<max_requests_per_1_day> (integer) - The maximum requests per day. Only relevant for certain models.

=item * C<max_requests_per_1_minute> (integer) - The maximum requests per minute.

=item * C<max_tokens_per_1_minute> (integer) - The maximum tokens per minute.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
