=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-users - Documentation for the /organization/users path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /organization/users

=head3 list-users

  $client->list_users({
      body => { ... },
  });

Lists all of the users in the organization.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - A limit on the number of objects to be returned. Limit can range between 1 and
100, and the default is 20.

Default: 20

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - A cursor for use in pagination. C<after> is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include after=obj_foo
in order to fetch the next page of the list.

=item * C<emails> (in query, optional, array) - Filter by the email address of users.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Users listed successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          "{\n    \"object\": \"organization.user\",\n    \"id\": \"user_abc\",\n    \"name\": \"First Last\",\n    \"email\": \"user@example.com\",\n    \"role\": \"owner\",\n    \"added_at\": 1711471533\n}\n"
       ],
       "first_id" : "string",
       "has_more" : false,
       "last_id" : "string",
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 User

Properties:

=over

=item * C<added_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the user was added.

=item * C<api_key_last_used_at> (anyOf) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of the user's last API key usage.

=item * C<created> (integer) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the user was created.

=item * C<developer_persona> (anyOf) - The developer persona metadata for the user.

=item * C<email> (anyOf) - The email address of the user

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints

=item * C<is_default> (boolean) - Whether this is the organization's default user.

=item * C<is_scale_tier_authorized_purchaser> (anyOf) - Whether the user is an authorized purchaser for Scale Tier.

=item * C<is_scim_managed> (boolean) - Whether the user is managed through SCIM.

=item * C<is_service_account> (boolean) - Whether the user is a service account.

=item * C<name> (anyOf) - The name of the user

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<organization.user>

Allowed values: organization.user

=item * C<projects> (anyOf) - Projects associated with the user, if included.

=item * C<role> (anyOf) - C<owner> or C<reader>

=item * C<technical_level> (anyOf) - The technical level metadata for the user.

=item * C<user> (object) - Nested user details.

=back

=head2 UserListResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of User, required)

=item * C<first_id> (anyOf)

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required)

=item * C<last_id> (anyOf)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

Allowed values: list

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
