=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-projects-project_id-data_retention - Documentation for the /organization/projects/{project_id}/data_retention path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /organization/projects/{project_id}/data_retention

=head3 retrieve-project-data-retention

  $client->retrieve_project_data_retention({
      body => { ... },
  });

Retrieves project data retention controls.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<project_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the project to inspect.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Project data retention controls retrieved successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "object" : "project.data_retention",
       "type" : "organization_default"
    }

=head2 POST /organization/projects/{project_id}/data_retention

=head3 update-project-data-retention

  $client->update_project_data_retention({
      body => { ... },
  });

Updates project data retention controls.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<project_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the project to update.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Project data retention controls updated successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "object" : "project.data_retention",
       "type" : "organization_default"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 ProjectDataRetention

Properties:

=over

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<project.data_retention> .

Allowed values: project.data_retention

=item * C<type> (string, required) - The configured project data retention type.

Allowed values: organization_default, none, zero_data_retention, modified_abuse_monitoring, enhanced_zero_data_retention, enhanced_modified_abuse_monitoring

=back

=head2 UpdateProjectDataRetentionBody

Properties:

=over

=item * C<retention_type> (string, required) - The desired project data retention type.

Allowed values: organization_default, none, zero_data_retention, modified_abuse_monitoring, enhanced_zero_data_retention, enhanced_modified_abuse_monitoring

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
