=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-projects-project_id-certificates-deactivate - Documentation for the /organization/projects/{project_id}/certificates/deactivate path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 POST /organization/projects/{project_id}/certificates/deactivate

=head3 deactivateProjectCertificates

  $client->deactivate_project_certificates({
      body => { ... },
  });

Deactivate certificates at the project level. You can atomically and
idempotently deactivate up to 10 certificates at a time.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<project_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the project.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Certificates deactivated successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          {
             "active" : false,
             "certificate_details" : {
                "expires_at" : 0,
                "valid_at" : 0
             },
             "created_at" : 0,
             "id" : "string",
             "name" : "string",
             "object" : "organization.project.certificate"
          }
       ],
       "object" : "organization.project.certificate.deactivation"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 OrganizationProjectCertificate

Properties:

=over

=item * C<active> (boolean, required) - Whether the certificate is currently active at the project level.

=item * C<certificate_details> (object, required)

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the certificate was uploaded.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints

=item * C<name> (anyOf, required) - The name of the certificate.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<organization.project.certificate> .

Allowed values: organization.project.certificate

=back

=head2 OrganizationProjectCertificateDeactivationResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of OrganizationProjectCertificate, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The project certificate deactivation result type.

Allowed values: organization.project.certificate.deactivation

=back

=head2 ToggleCertificatesRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<certificate_ids> (array of string, required)

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
