=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-projects-project_id - Documentation for the /organization/projects/{project_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /organization/projects/{project_id}

=head3 retrieve-project

  $client->retrieve_project({
      body => { ... },
  });

Retrieves a project.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<project_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the project.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Project retrieved successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "archived_at" : null,
       "created_at" : 1711471533,
       "external_key_id" : null,
       "id" : "proj_abc",
       "name" : "Project example",
       "object" : "organization.project",
       "status" : "active"
    }

=head2 POST /organization/projects/{project_id}

=head3 modify-project

  $client->modify_project({
      body => { ... },
  });

Modifies a project in the organization.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<project_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the project.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Project updated successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "archived_at" : null,
       "created_at" : 1711471533,
       "external_key_id" : null,
       "id" : "proj_abc",
       "name" : "Project example",
       "object" : "organization.project",
       "status" : "active"
    }

B<400 - Error response when updating the default project.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "error" : {
          "code" : "string",
          "message" : "string",
          "param" : "string",
          "type" : "string"
       }
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 Error

Properties:

=over

=item * C<code> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<message> (string, required)

=item * C<param> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<type> (string, required)

=back

=head2 ErrorResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<error> (Error, required)

See L</Error> below for shape.

=back

=head2 Project

Properties:

=over

=item * C<archived_at> (anyOf)

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the project was created.

=item * C<external_key_id> (anyOf) - The external key associated with the project.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints

=item * C<name> (anyOf) - The name of the project. This appears in reporting.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<organization.project>

Allowed values: organization.project

=item * C<status> (anyOf) - C<active> or C<archived>

=back

=head2 ProjectUpdateRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<external_key_id> (anyOf) - External key ID to associate with the project.

=item * C<geography> (anyOf) - Geography for the project.

=item * C<name> (anyOf) - The updated name of the project, this name appears in reports.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
