=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-certificates-certificate_id - Documentation for the /organization/certificates/{certificate_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /organization/certificates/{certificate_id}

=head3 deleteCertificate

  $client->delete_certificate({
      body => { ... },
  });

Delete a certificate from the organization.

The certificate must be inactive for the organization and all projects.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<certificate_id> (in path, required, string) - Unique ID of the certificate to delete.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Certificate deleted successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "id" : "string",
       "object" : "certificate.deleted"
    }

=head2 GET /organization/certificates/{certificate_id}

=head3 getCertificate

  $client->get_certificate({
      body => { ... },
  });

Get a certificate that has been uploaded to the organization.

You can get a certificate regardless of whether it is active or not.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<certificate_id> (in path, required, string) - Unique ID of the certificate to retrieve.

=item * C<include> (in query, optional, array) - A list of additional fields to include in the response. Currently the only
supported value is C<content> to fetch the PEM content of the certificate.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Certificate retrieved successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "certificate_details" : {
          "content" : "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE----- MIIGAjCCA...6znFlOW+ -----END CERTIFICATE-----",
          "expires_at" : 12345678,
          "valid_at" : 1234567
       },
       "created_at" : 1234567,
       "id" : "cert_abc",
       "name" : "My Certificate",
       "object" : "certificate"
    }

=head2 POST /organization/certificates/{certificate_id}

=head3 modifyCertificate

  $client->modify_certificate({
      body => { ... },
  });

Modify a certificate. Note that only the name can be modified.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<certificate_id> (in path, required, string) - Unique ID of the certificate to modify.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Certificate modified successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "certificate_details" : {
          "content" : "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE----- MIIGAjCCA...6znFlOW+ -----END CERTIFICATE-----",
          "expires_at" : 12345678,
          "valid_at" : 1234567
       },
       "created_at" : 1234567,
       "id" : "cert_abc",
       "name" : "My Certificate",
       "object" : "certificate"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 Certificate

Properties:

=over

=item * C<active> (boolean) - Whether the certificate is currently active at the specified scope. Not
returned when getting details for a specific certificate.

=item * C<certificate_details> (object, required)

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the certificate was uploaded.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints

=item * C<name> (anyOf, required) - The name of the certificate.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type.

- If creating, updating, or getting a specific certificate, the object type is
C<certificate> . - If listing, activating, or deactivating certificates for
the organization, the object type is C<organization.certificate> . - If
listing, activating, or deactivating certificates for a project, the object
type is C<organization.project.certificate> .

Allowed values: certificate, organization.certificate, organization.project.certificate

=back

=head2 DeleteCertificateResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The ID of the certificate that was deleted.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, must be C<certificate.deleted> .

Allowed values: certificate.deleted

=back

=head2 ModifyCertificateRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<name> (string) - The updated name for the certificate

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
