=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::organization-projects-project_id-certificates - Documentation for the /organization/projects/{project_id}/certificates path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /organization/projects/{project_id}/certificates

=head3 listProjectCertificates

  $client->list_project_certificates({
      body => { ... },
  });

List certificates for this project.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<project_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the project.

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - A limit on the number of objects to be returned. Limit can range between 1 and
100, and the default is 20.

Default: 20

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - A cursor for use in pagination. C<after> is an object ID that defines your
place in the list. For instance, if you make a list request and receive 100
objects, ending with obj_foo, your subsequent call can include after=obj_foo
in order to fetch the next page of the list.

=item * C<order> (in query, optional, string) - Sort order by the C<created_at> timestamp of the objects. C<asc> for ascending
order and C<desc> for descending order.

Allowed values: asc, desc

Default: desc

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Certificates listed successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          {
             "active" : false,
             "certificate_details" : {
                "expires_at" : 0,
                "valid_at" : 0
             },
             "created_at" : 0,
             "id" : "string",
             "name" : "string",
             "object" : "organization.project.certificate"
          }
       ],
       "first_id" : "cert_abc",
       "has_more" : false,
       "last_id" : "cert_abc",
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 ListProjectCertificatesResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of OrganizationProjectCertificate, required)

=item * C<first_id> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required)

=item * C<last_id> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

Allowed values: list

=back

=head2 OrganizationProjectCertificate

Properties:

=over

=item * C<active> (boolean, required) - Whether the certificate is currently active at the project level.

=item * C<certificate_details> (object, required)

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the certificate was uploaded.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints

=item * C<name> (anyOf, required) - The name of the certificate.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<organization.project.certificate> .

Allowed values: organization.project.certificate

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
