=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::realtime-client_secrets - Documentation for the /realtime/client_secrets path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 POST /realtime/client_secrets

=head3 create-realtime-client-secret

  $client->create_realtime_client_secret({
      body => { ... },
  });

Create a Realtime client secret with an associated session configuration.

Client secrets are short-lived tokens that can be passed to a client app, such
as a web frontend or mobile client, which grants access to the Realtime API
without leaking your main API key. You can configure a custom TTL for each
client secret.

You can also attach session configuration options to the client secret, which
will be applied to any sessions created using that client secret, but these
can also be overridden by the client connection.

L<Learn more about authentication with client secrets over WebRTC|https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/realtime-webrtc>
.

Returns the created client secret and the effective session object. The client
secret is a string that looks like C<ek_1234> .

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Client secret created successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "expires_at" : 1756310470,
       "session" : {
          "audio" : {
             "input" : {
                "format" : {
                   "rate" : 24000,
                   "type" : "audio/pcm"
                },
                "noise_reduction" : null,
                "transcription" : null,
                "turn_detection" : {
                   "create_response" : true,
                   "idle_timeout_ms" : null,
                   "interrupt_response" : true,
                   "prefix_padding_ms" : 300,
                   "silence_duration_ms" : 200,
                   "threshold" : 0.5,
                   "type" : "server_vad"
                }
             },
             "output" : {
                "format" : {
                   "rate" : 24000,
                   "type" : "audio/pcm"
                },
                "speed" : 1,
                "voice" : "alloy"
             }
          },
          "expires_at" : 0,
          "id" : "sess_C9CiUVUzUzYIssh3ELY1d",
          "include" : null,
          "instructions" : "You are a friendly assistant.",
          "max_output_tokens" : "inf",
          "model" : "gpt-realtime-2025-08-25",
          "object" : "realtime.session",
          "output_modalities" : [
             "audio"
          ],
          "prompt" : null,
          "tool_choice" : "auto",
          "tools" : [],
          "tracing" : null,
          "truncation" : "auto",
          "type" : "realtime"
       },
       "value" : "ek_68af296e8e408191a1120ab6383263c2"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 RealtimeCreateClientSecretRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<expires_after> (object) - Configuration for the client secret expiration. Expiration refers to the time
after which a client secret will no longer be valid for creating sessions. The
session itself may continue after that time once started. A secret can be used
to create multiple sessions until it expires.

=item * C<session> (oneOf) - Session configuration to use for the client secret. Choose either a realtime
session or a transcription session.

=back

=head2 RealtimeCreateClientSecretResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<expires_at> (integer, required) - Expiration timestamp for the client secret, in seconds since epoch.

=item * C<session> (oneOf, required) - The session configuration for either a realtime or transcription session.

=item * C<value> (string, required) - The generated client secret value.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
