=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::realtime-translations-client_secrets - Documentation for the /realtime/translations/client_secrets path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 POST /realtime/translations/client_secrets

=head3 create-realtime-translation-client-secret

  $client->create_realtime_translation_client_secret({
      body => { ... },
  });

Create a Realtime translation client secret with an associated translation
session configuration.

Client secrets are short-lived tokens that can be passed to a client app, such
as a web frontend or mobile client, which grants access to the Realtime
Translation API without leaking your main API key. You can configure a custom
TTL for each client secret.

Returns the created client secret and the effective translation session
object. The client secret is a string that looks like C<ek_1234> .

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Translation client secret created successfully.>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "expires_at" : 1756310470,
       "session" : {
          "audio" : {
             "input" : {
                "noise_reduction" : null,
                "transcription" : null
             },
             "output" : {
                "language" : "es"
             }
          },
          "expires_at" : 1756310470,
          "id" : "sess_C9CiUVUzUzYIssh3ELY1d",
          "model" : "gpt-realtime-translate",
          "type" : "translation"
       },
       "value" : "ek_68af296e8e408191a1120ab6383263c2"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 RealtimeTranslationClientSecretCreateRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<expires_after> (object) - Configuration for the client secret expiration. Expiration refers to the time
after which a client secret will no longer be valid for creating sessions. The
session itself may continue after that time once started. A secret can be used
to create multiple sessions until it expires.

=item * C<session> (RealtimeTranslationSessionCreateRequest, required)

See L</RealtimeTranslationSessionCreateRequest> below for shape.

=back

=head2 RealtimeTranslationClientSecretCreateResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<expires_at> (integer, required) - Expiration timestamp for the client secret, in seconds since epoch.

=item * C<session> (RealtimeTranslationSession, required)

See L</RealtimeTranslationSession> below for shape.

=item * C<value> (string, required) - The generated client secret value.

=back

=head2 RealtimeTranslationSession

Properties:

=over

=item * C<audio> (object, required) - Configuration for translation input and output audio.

=item * C<expires_at> (integer, required) - Expiration timestamp for the session, in seconds since epoch.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - Unique identifier for the session that looks like C<sess_1234567890abcdef> .

=item * C<model> (string, required) - The Realtime translation model used for this session. This field is set at
session creation and cannot be changed with C<session.update> .

=item * C<type> (string, required) - The session type. Always C<translation> for Realtime translation sessions.

Allowed values: translation

=back

=head2 RealtimeTranslationSessionCreateRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<audio> (object) - Configuration for translation input and output audio.

=item * C<model> (string, required) - The Realtime translation model used for this session.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
