=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::responses-response_id-input_items - Documentation for the /responses/{response_id}/input_items path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /responses/{response_id}/input_items

=head3 listInputItems

  $client->list_input_items({
      body => { ... },
  });

Returns a list of input items for a given response.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<response_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the response to retrieve input items for.

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - A limit on the number of objects to be returned. Limit can range between 1 and
100, and the default is 20.

Default: 20

=item * C<order> (in query, optional, string) - The order to return the input items in. Default is C<desc> . - C<asc> : Return
the input items in ascending order. - C<desc> : Return the input items in
descending order.

Allowed values: asc, desc

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - An item ID to list items after, used in pagination.

=item * C<include> (in query, optional, array) - Additional fields to include in the response. See the C<include> parameter for
Response creation above for more information.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          {
             "content" : [
                {
                   "text" : "Tell me a three sentence bedtime story about a unicorn.",
                   "type" : "input_text"
                }
             ],
             "id" : "msg_abc123",
             "role" : "user",
             "type" : "message"
          }
       ],
       "first_id" : "msg_abc123",
       "has_more" : false,
       "last_id" : "msg_abc123",
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 ItemResource

Content item used to generate a response.

=head2 ResponseItemList

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of ItemResource, required) - A list of items used to generate this response.

=item * C<first_id> (string, required) - The ID of the first item in the list.

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required) - Whether there are more items available.

=item * C<last_id> (string, required) - The ID of the last item in the list.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The type of object returned, must be C<list> .

Allowed values: list

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
