=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::responses-response_id - Documentation for the /responses/{response_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /responses/{response_id}

=head3 deleteResponse

  $client->delete_response({
      body => { ... },
  });

Deletes a model response with the given ID.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<response_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the response to delete.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

B<404 - Not Found>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "code" : "string",
       "message" : "string",
       "param" : "string",
       "type" : "string"
    }

=head2 GET /responses/{response_id}

=head3 getResponse

  $client->get_response({
      body => { ... },
  });

Retrieves a model response with the given ID.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<response_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the response to retrieve.

=item * C<include> (in query, optional, array) - Additional fields to include in the response. See the C<include> parameter for
Response creation above for more information.

=item * C<stream> (in query, optional, boolean) - If set to true, the model response data will be streamed to the client as it
is generated using
L<server-sent events|https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Server-sent_events/Using_server-sent_events#Event_stream_format>
. See the
L<Streaming section below|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/responses-streaming>
for more information.

=item * C<starting_after> (in query, optional, integer) - The sequence number of the event after which to start streaming.

=item * C<include_obfuscation> (in query, optional, boolean) - When true, stream obfuscation will be enabled. Stream obfuscation adds random
characters to an C<obfuscation> field on streaming delta events to normalize
payload sizes as a mitigation to certain side-channel attacks. These
obfuscation fields are included by default, but add a small amount of overhead
to the data stream. You can set C<include_obfuscation> to false to optimize
for bandwidth if you trust the network links between your application and the
OpenAI API.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "completed_at" : 1741476778,
       "created_at" : 1741476777,
       "error" : null,
       "id" : "resp_67ccd3a9da748190baa7f1570fe91ac604becb25c45c1d41",
       "incomplete_details" : null,
       "instructions" : null,
       "max_output_tokens" : null,
       "metadata" : {},
       "model" : "gpt-4o-2024-08-06",
       "object" : "response",
       "output" : [
          {
             "content" : [
                {
                   "annotations" : [],
                   "text" : "The image depicts a scenic landscape with a wooden boardwalk or pathway leading through lush, green grass under a blue sky with some clouds. The setting suggests a peaceful natural area, possibly a park or nature reserve. There are trees and shrubs in the background.",
                   "type" : "output_text"
                }
             ],
             "id" : "msg_67ccd3acc8d48190a77525dc6de64b4104becb25c45c1d41",
             "role" : "assistant",
             "status" : "completed",
             "type" : "message"
          }
       ],
       "parallel_tool_calls" : true,
       "previous_response_id" : null,
       "reasoning" : {
          "effort" : null,
          "summary" : null
       },
       "status" : "completed",
       "store" : true,
       "temperature" : 1,
       "text" : {
          "format" : {
             "type" : "text"
          }
       },
       "tool_choice" : "auto",
       "tools" : [],
       "top_p" : 1,
       "truncation" : "disabled",
       "usage" : {
          "input_tokens" : 328,
          "input_tokens_details" : {
             "cached_tokens" : 0
          },
          "output_tokens" : 52,
          "output_tokens_details" : {
             "reasoning_tokens" : 0
          },
          "total_tokens" : 380
       },
       "user" : null
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 Error

Properties:

=over

=item * C<code> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<message> (string, required)

=item * C<param> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<type> (string, required)

=back

=head2 Response

See L<https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference> for details.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
