=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::skills-skill_id-versions-version - Documentation for the /skills/{skill_id}/versions/{version} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /skills/{skill_id}/versions/{version}

=head3 DeleteSkillVersion

  $client->delete_skill_version({
      body => { ... },
  });

Delete a skill version.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<skill_id> (in path, required, string) - The identifier of the skill.

=item * C<version> (in path, required, string) - The skill version number.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "deleted" : false,
       "id" : "string",
       "object" : "skill.version.deleted",
       "version" : "string"
    }

=head2 GET /skills/{skill_id}/versions/{version}

=head3 GetSkillVersion

  $client->get_skill_version({
      body => { ... },
  });

Get a specific skill version.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<skill_id> (in path, required, string) - The identifier of the skill.

=item * C<version> (in path, required, string) - The version number to retrieve.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created_at" : 0,
       "description" : "string",
       "id" : "string",
       "name" : "string",
       "object" : "skill.version",
       "skill_id" : "string",
       "version" : "string"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 DeletedSkillVersionResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<deleted> (boolean, required)

=item * C<id> (string, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

Allowed values: skill.version.deleted

Default: skill.version.deleted

=item * C<version> (string, required) - The deleted skill version.

=back

=head2 SkillVersionResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - Unix timestamp (seconds) for when the version was created.

=item * C<description> (string, required) - Description of the skill version.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - Unique identifier for the skill version.

=item * C<name> (string, required) - Name of the skill version.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is C<skill.version> .

Allowed values: skill.version

Default: skill.version

=item * C<skill_id> (string, required) - Identifier of the skill for this version.

=item * C<version> (string, required) - Version number for this skill.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
