=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::skills-skill_id-versions - Documentation for the /skills/{skill_id}/versions path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 GET /skills/{skill_id}/versions

=head3 ListSkillVersions

  $client->list_skill_versions({
      body => { ... },
  });

List skill versions for a skill.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<skill_id> (in path, required, string) - The identifier of the skill.

=item * C<limit> (in query, optional, integer) - Number of versions to retrieve.

=item * C<order> (in query, optional, string) - Sort order of results by version number.

=item * C<after> (in query, optional, string) - The skill version ID to start after.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          {
             "created_at" : 0,
             "description" : "string",
             "id" : "string",
             "name" : "string",
             "object" : "skill.version",
             "skill_id" : "string",
             "version" : "string"
          }
       ],
       "first_id" : "string",
       "has_more" : false,
       "last_id" : "string",
       "object" : "list"
    }

=head2 POST /skills/{skill_id}/versions

=head3 CreateSkillVersion

  $client->create_skill_version({
      body => { ... },
  });

Create a new immutable skill version.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<skill_id> (in path, required, string) - The identifier of the skill to version.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created_at" : 0,
       "description" : "string",
       "id" : "string",
       "name" : "string",
       "object" : "skill.version",
       "skill_id" : "string",
       "version" : "string"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 CreateSkillVersionBody

Properties:

=over

=item * C<default> (boolean) - Whether to set this version as the default.

=item * C<files> (oneOf, required)

=back

=head2 SkillVersionListResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of SkillVersionResource, required) - A list of items

=item * C<first_id> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required) - Whether there are more items available.

=item * C<last_id> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The type of object returned, must be C<list> .

Allowed values: list

Default: list

=back

=head2 SkillVersionResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - Unix timestamp (seconds) for when the version was created.

=item * C<description> (string, required) - Description of the skill version.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - Unique identifier for the skill version.

=item * C<name> (string, required) - Name of the skill version.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is C<skill.version> .

Allowed values: skill.version

Default: skill.version

=item * C<skill_id> (string, required) - Identifier of the skill for this version.

=item * C<version> (string, required) - Version number for this skill.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
