=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::skills-skill_id - Documentation for the /skills/{skill_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /skills/{skill_id}

=head3 DeleteSkill

  $client->delete_skill({
      body => { ... },
  });

Delete a skill by its ID.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<skill_id> (in path, required, string) - The identifier of the skill to delete.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "deleted" : false,
       "id" : "string",
       "object" : "skill.deleted"
    }

=head2 GET /skills/{skill_id}

=head3 GetSkill

  $client->get_skill({
      body => { ... },
  });

Get a skill by its ID.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<skill_id> (in path, required, string) - The identifier of the skill to retrieve.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created_at" : 0,
       "default_version" : "string",
       "description" : "string",
       "id" : "string",
       "latest_version" : "string",
       "name" : "string",
       "object" : "skill"
    }

=head2 POST /skills/{skill_id}

=head3 UpdateSkillDefaultVersion

  $client->update_skill_default_version({
      body => { ... },
  });

Update the default version pointer for a skill.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<skill_id> (in path, required, string) - The identifier of the skill.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created_at" : 0,
       "default_version" : "string",
       "description" : "string",
       "id" : "string",
       "latest_version" : "string",
       "name" : "string",
       "object" : "skill"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 DeletedSkillResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<deleted> (boolean, required)

=item * C<id> (string, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

Allowed values: skill.deleted

Default: skill.deleted

=back

=head2 SetDefaultSkillVersionBody

Properties:

=over

=item * C<default_version> (string, required) - The skill version number to set as default.

=back

=head2 SkillResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - Unix timestamp (seconds) for when the skill was created.

=item * C<default_version> (string, required) - Default version for the skill.

=item * C<description> (string, required) - Description of the skill.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - Unique identifier for the skill.

=item * C<latest_version> (string, required) - Latest version for the skill.

=item * C<name> (string, required) - Name of the skill.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is C<skill> .

Allowed values: skill

Default: skill

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
