=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::threads-thread_id-runs-run_id-cancel - Documentation for the /threads/{thread_id}/runs/{run_id}/cancel path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 POST /threads/{thread_id}/runs/{run_id}/cancel

=head3 cancelRun

  $client->cancel_run({
      body => { ... },
  });

Cancels a run that is C<in_progress> .

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<thread_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the thread to which this run belongs.

=item * C<run_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the run to cancel.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "assistant_id" : "asst_abc123",
       "cancelled_at" : null,
       "completed_at" : 1699073498,
       "created_at" : 1698107661,
       "expires_at" : null,
       "failed_at" : null,
       "id" : "run_abc123",
       "incomplete_details" : null,
       "instructions" : null,
       "last_error" : null,
       "max_completion_tokens" : 1000,
       "max_prompt_tokens" : 1000,
       "metadata" : {},
       "model" : "gpt-4o",
       "object" : "thread.run",
       "parallel_tool_calls" : true,
       "response_format" : "auto",
       "started_at" : 1699073476,
       "status" : "completed",
       "temperature" : 1,
       "thread_id" : "thread_abc123",
       "tool_choice" : "auto",
       "tools" : [
          {
             "type" : "file_search"
          },
          {
             "type" : "code_interpreter"
          }
       ],
       "top_p" : 1,
       "truncation_strategy" : {
          "last_messages" : null,
          "type" : "auto"
       },
       "usage" : {
          "completion_tokens" : 456,
          "prompt_tokens" : 123,
          "total_tokens" : 579
       }
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 AssistantsApiResponseFormatOption

Specifies the format that the model must output. Compatible with
L<GPT-4o|https://platform.openai.com/docs/models#gpt-4o> ,
L<GPT-4 Turbo|https://platform.openai.com/docs/models#gpt-4-turbo-and-gpt-4> ,
and all GPT-3.5 Turbo models since C<gpt-3.5-turbo-1106> .

Setting to C<{ "type": "json_schema", "json_schema": {...} }> enables
Structured Outputs which ensures the model will match your supplied JSON
schema. Learn more in the
L<Structured Outputs guide|https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/structured-outputs>
.

Setting to C<{ "type": "json_object" }> enables JSON mode, which ensures the
message the model generates is valid JSON.

B<Important:> when using JSON mode, you B<must> also instruct the model to
produce JSON yourself via a system or user message. Without this, the model
may generate an unending stream of whitespace until the generation reaches the
token limit, resulting in a long-running and seemingly "stuck" request. Also
note that the message content may be partially cut off if
C<finish_reason="length"> , which indicates the generation exceeded
C<max_tokens> or the conversation exceeded the max context length.

=head2 Metadata

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format, and querying for objects via API or the dashboard.

Keys are strings with a maximum length of 64 characters. Values are strings
with a maximum length of 512 characters.

=head2 ParallelToolCalls

Whether to enable
L<parallel function calling|https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/function-calling#configuring-parallel-function-calling>
during tool use.

=head2 RunCompletionUsage

Usage statistics related to the run. This value will be C<null> if the run is
not in a terminal state (i.e. C<in_progress> , C<queued> , etc.).

=head2 RunObject

Properties:

=over

=item * C<assistant_id> (string, required) - The ID of the
L<assistant|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/assistants> used
for execution of this run.

=item * C<cancelled_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run was cancelled.

=item * C<completed_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run was completed.

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run was created.

=item * C<expires_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run will expire.

=item * C<failed_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run failed.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

=item * C<incomplete_details> (object, required) - Details on why the run is incomplete. Will be C<null> if the run is not
incomplete.

=item * C<instructions> (string, required) - The instructions that the
L<assistant|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/assistants> used
for this run.

=item * C<last_error> (object, required) - The last error associated with this run. Will be C<null> if there are no
errors.

=item * C<max_completion_tokens> (integer, required) - The maximum number of completion tokens specified to have been used over the
course of the run.

=item * C<max_prompt_tokens> (integer, required) - The maximum number of prompt tokens specified to have been used over the
course of the run.

=item * C<metadata> (Metadata, required)

See L</Metadata> below for shape.

=item * C<model> (string, required) - The model that the
L<assistant|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/assistants> used
for this run.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<thread.run> .

Allowed values: thread.run

=item * C<parallel_tool_calls> (ParallelToolCalls, required)

See L</ParallelToolCalls> below for shape.

=item * C<required_action> (object, required) - Details on the action required to continue the run. Will be C<null> if no
action is required.

=item * C<response_format> (AssistantsApiResponseFormatOption, required)

See L</AssistantsApiResponseFormatOption> below for shape.

=item * C<started_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the run was started.

=item * C<status> (string, required) - The status of the run, which can be either C<queued> , C<in_progress> ,
C<requires_action> , C<cancelling> , C<cancelled> , C<failed> , C<completed> ,
C<incomplete> , or C<expired> .

Allowed values: queued, in_progress, requires_action, cancelling, cancelled, failed, completed, incomplete, expired

=item * C<temperature> (number) - The sampling temperature used for this run. If not set, defaults to 1.

=item * C<thread_id> (string, required) - The ID of the L<thread|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/threads>
that was executed on as a part of this run.

=item * C<tool_choice> (allOf, required)

=item * C<tools> (array of object, required) - The list of tools that the
L<assistant|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/assistants> used
for this run.

Default: []

=item * C<top_p> (number) - The nucleus sampling value used for this run. If not set, defaults to 1.

=item * C<truncation_strategy> (allOf, required)

=item * C<usage> (RunCompletionUsage, required)

See L</RunCompletionUsage> below for shape.

=back

=head2 RunToolCallObject

Properties:

=over

=item * C<function> (object, required) - The function definition.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The ID of the tool call. This ID must be referenced when you submit the tool
outputs in using the
L<Submit tool outputs to run|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/runs/submitToolOutputs>
endpoint.

=item * C<type> (string, required) - The type of tool call the output is required for. For now, this is always
C<function> .

Allowed values: function

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
