=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::uploads-upload_id-cancel - Documentation for the /uploads/{upload_id}/cancel path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 POST /uploads/{upload_id}/cancel

=head3 cancelUpload

  $client->cancel_upload({
      body => { ... },
  });

Cancels the Upload. No Parts may be added after an Upload is cancelled.

Returns the Upload object with status C<cancelled> .

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<upload_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the Upload.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    "{\n  \"id\": \"upload_abc123\",\n  \"object\": \"upload\",\n  \"bytes\": 2147483648,\n  \"created_at\": 1719184911,\n  \"filename\": \"training_examples.jsonl\",\n  \"purpose\": \"fine-tune\",\n  \"status\": \"completed\",\n  \"expires_at\": 1719127296,\n  \"file\": {\n    \"id\": \"file-xyz321\",\n    \"object\": \"file\",\n    \"bytes\": 2147483648,\n    \"created_at\": 1719186911,\n    \"filename\": \"training_examples.jsonl\",\n    \"purpose\": \"fine-tune\",\n  }\n}\n"

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 Upload

Properties:

=over

=item * C<bytes> (integer, required) - The intended number of bytes to be uploaded.

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the Upload was created.

=item * C<expires_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the Upload will expire.

=item * C<file> (allOf)

=item * C<filename> (string, required) - The name of the file to be uploaded.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The Upload unique identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

=item * C<object> (string) - The object type, which is always "upload".

Allowed values: upload

=item * C<purpose> (string, required) - The intended purpose of the file.
L<Please refer here|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/files/object#files/object-purpose>
for acceptable values.

=item * C<status> (string, required) - The status of the Upload.

Allowed values: pending, completed, cancelled, expired

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
