=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::uploads-upload_id-parts - Documentation for the /uploads/{upload_id}/parts path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 POST /uploads/{upload_id}/parts

=head3 addUploadPart

  $client->add_upload_part({
      body => { ... },
  });

Adds a
L<Part|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/uploads/part-object> to
an L<Upload|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/uploads/object>
object. A Part represents a chunk of bytes from the file you are trying to
upload.

Each Part can be at most 64 MB, and you can add Parts until you hit the Upload
maximum of 8 GB.

It is possible to add multiple Parts in parallel. You can decide the intended
order of the Parts when you
L<complete the Upload|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/uploads/complete>
.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<upload_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the Upload.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created_at" : 1719186911,
       "id" : "part_def456",
       "object" : "upload.part",
       "upload_id" : "upload_abc123"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 AddUploadPartRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (string, required) - The chunk of bytes for this Part.

=back

=head2 UploadPart

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the Part was created.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The upload Part unique identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<upload.part> .

Allowed values: upload.part

=item * C<upload_id> (string, required) - The ID of the Upload object that this Part was added to.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
