=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::vector_stores-vector_store_id-search - Documentation for the /vector_stores/{vector_store_id}/search path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 POST /vector_stores/{vector_store_id}/search

=head3 searchVectorStore

  $client->search_vector_store({
      body => { ... },
  });

Search a vector store for relevant chunks based on a query and file attributes
filter.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<vector_store_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the vector store to search.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "data" : [
          {
             "attributes" : {},
             "content" : [
                {
                   "text" : "string",
                   "type" : "text"
                }
             ],
             "file_id" : "string",
             "filename" : "string",
             "score" : 0
          }
       ],
       "has_more" : false,
       "next_page" : "string",
       "object" : "vector_store.search_results.page",
       "search_query" : [
          "string"
       ]
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 VectorStoreFileAttributes

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format, and querying for objects via API or the dashboard. Keys are strings
with a maximum length of 64 characters. Values are strings with a maximum
length of 512 characters, booleans, or numbers.

=head2 VectorStoreSearchRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<filters> (oneOf) - A filter to apply based on file attributes.

=item * C<max_num_results> (integer) - The maximum number of results to return. This number should be between 1 and
50 inclusive.

Default: 10

=item * C<query> (oneOf, required) - A query string for a search

=item * C<ranking_options> (object) - Ranking options for search.

=item * C<rewrite_query> (boolean) - Whether to rewrite the natural language query for vector search.

Default: 

=back

=head2 VectorStoreSearchResultContentObject

Properties:

=over

=item * C<text> (string, required) - The text content returned from search.

=item * C<type> (string, required) - The type of content.

Allowed values: text

=back

=head2 VectorStoreSearchResultItem

Properties:

=over

=item * C<attributes> (VectorStoreFileAttributes, required)

See L</VectorStoreFileAttributes> below for shape.

=item * C<content> (array of VectorStoreSearchResultContentObject, required) - Content chunks from the file.

=item * C<file_id> (string, required) - The ID of the vector store file.

=item * C<filename> (string, required) - The name of the vector store file.

=item * C<score> (number, required) - The similarity score for the result.

=back

=head2 VectorStoreSearchResultsPage

Properties:

=over

=item * C<data> (array of VectorStoreSearchResultItem, required) - The list of search result items.

=item * C<has_more> (boolean, required) - Indicates if there are more results to fetch.

=item * C<next_page> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<vector_store.search_results.page>

Allowed values: vector_store.search_results.page

=item * C<search_query> (array of string, required)

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
