=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::vector_stores-vector_store_id-files-file_id - Documentation for the /vector_stores/{vector_store_id}/files/{file_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /vector_stores/{vector_store_id}/files/{file_id}

=head3 deleteVectorStoreFile

  $client->delete_vector_store_file({
      body => { ... },
  });

Delete a vector store file. This will remove the file from the vector store
but the file itself will not be deleted. To delete the file, use the
L<delete file|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/files/delete>
endpoint.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<vector_store_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the vector store that the file belongs to.

=item * C<file_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the file to delete.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "deleted" : false,
       "id" : "string",
       "object" : "vector_store.file.deleted"
    }

=head2 GET /vector_stores/{vector_store_id}/files/{file_id}

=head3 getVectorStoreFile

  $client->get_vector_store_file({
      body => { ... },
  });

Retrieves a vector store file.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<vector_store_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the vector store that the file belongs to.

=item * C<file_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the file being retrieved.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "chunking_strategy" : {
          "static" : {
             "chunk_overlap_tokens" : 400,
             "max_chunk_size_tokens" : 800
          },
          "type" : "static"
       },
       "created_at" : 1698107661,
       "id" : "file-abc123",
       "last_error" : null,
       "object" : "vector_store.file",
       "status" : "completed",
       "usage_bytes" : 1234,
       "vector_store_id" : "vs_abc123"
    }

=head2 POST /vector_stores/{vector_store_id}/files/{file_id}

=head3 updateVectorStoreFileAttributes

  $client->update_vector_store_file_attributes({
      body => { ... },
  });

Update attributes on a vector store file.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<vector_store_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the vector store the file belongs to.

=item * C<file_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the file to update attributes.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "chunking_strategy" : {
          "static" : {
             "chunk_overlap_tokens" : 400,
             "max_chunk_size_tokens" : 800
          },
          "type" : "static"
       },
       "created_at" : 1698107661,
       "id" : "file-abc123",
       "last_error" : null,
       "object" : "vector_store.file",
       "status" : "completed",
       "usage_bytes" : 1234,
       "vector_store_id" : "vs_abc123"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 DeleteVectorStoreFileResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<deleted> (boolean, required)

=item * C<id> (string, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

Allowed values: vector_store.file.deleted

=back

=head2 UpdateVectorStoreFileAttributesRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<attributes> (VectorStoreFileAttributes, required)

See L</VectorStoreFileAttributes> below for shape.

=back

=head2 VectorStoreFileAttributes

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format, and querying for objects via API or the dashboard. Keys are strings
with a maximum length of 64 characters. Values are strings with a maximum
length of 512 characters, booleans, or numbers.

=head2 VectorStoreFileObject

Properties:

=over

=item * C<attributes> (VectorStoreFileAttributes)

See L</VectorStoreFileAttributes> below for shape.

=item * C<chunking_strategy> (object) - The strategy used to chunk the file.

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the vector store file was created.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

=item * C<last_error> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<vector_store.file> .

Allowed values: vector_store.file

=item * C<status> (string, required) - The status of the vector store file, which can be either C<in_progress> ,
C<completed> , C<cancelled> , or C<failed> . The status C<completed> indicates
that the vector store file is ready for use.

Allowed values: in_progress, completed, cancelled, failed

=item * C<usage_bytes> (integer, required) - The total vector store usage in bytes. Note that this may be different from
the original file size.

=item * C<vector_store_id> (string, required) - The ID of the
L<vector store|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/vector-stores/object>
that the L<File|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/files> is
attached to.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
