=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::vector_stores-vector_store_id - Documentation for the /vector_stores/{vector_store_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /vector_stores/{vector_store_id}

=head3 deleteVectorStore

  $client->delete_vector_store({
      body => { ... },
  });

Delete a vector store.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<vector_store_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the vector store to delete.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "deleted" : false,
       "id" : "string",
       "object" : "vector_store.deleted"
    }

=head2 GET /vector_stores/{vector_store_id}

=head3 getVectorStore

  $client->get_vector_store({
      body => { ... },
  });

Retrieves a vector store.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<vector_store_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the vector store to retrieve.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created_at" : 1698107661,
       "file_counts" : {
          "cancelled" : 0,
          "completed" : 100,
          "failed" : 0,
          "in_progress" : 0,
          "total" : 100
       },
       "id" : "vs_123",
       "last_active_at" : 1698107661,
       "last_used_at" : 1698107661,
       "name" : "my_vector_store",
       "object" : "vector_store",
       "status" : "completed",
       "usage_bytes" : 123456
    }

=head2 POST /vector_stores/{vector_store_id}

=head3 modifyVectorStore

  $client->modify_vector_store({
      body => { ... },
  });

Modifies a vector store.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<vector_store_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the vector store to modify.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created_at" : 1698107661,
       "file_counts" : {
          "cancelled" : 0,
          "completed" : 100,
          "failed" : 0,
          "in_progress" : 0,
          "total" : 100
       },
       "id" : "vs_123",
       "last_active_at" : 1698107661,
       "last_used_at" : 1698107661,
       "name" : "my_vector_store",
       "object" : "vector_store",
       "status" : "completed",
       "usage_bytes" : 123456
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 DeleteVectorStoreResponse

Properties:

=over

=item * C<deleted> (boolean, required)

=item * C<id> (string, required)

=item * C<object> (string, required)

Allowed values: vector_store.deleted

=back

=head2 Metadata

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format, and querying for objects via API or the dashboard.

Keys are strings with a maximum length of 64 characters. Values are strings
with a maximum length of 512 characters.

=head2 UpdateVectorStoreRequest

Properties:

=over

=item * C<expires_after> (allOf)

=item * C<metadata> (Metadata)

See L</Metadata> below for shape.

=item * C<name> (string) - The name of the vector store.

=back

=head2 VectorStoreExpirationAfter

Properties:

=over

=item * C<anchor> (string, required) - Anchor timestamp after which the expiration policy applies. Supported anchors:
C<last_active_at> .

Allowed values: last_active_at

=item * C<days> (integer, required) - The number of days after the anchor time that the vector store will expire.

=back

=head2 VectorStoreObject

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the vector store was created.

=item * C<expires_after> (VectorStoreExpirationAfter)

See L</VectorStoreExpirationAfter> below for shape.

=item * C<expires_at> (anyOf)

=item * C<file_counts> (object, required)

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

=item * C<last_active_at> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<metadata> (Metadata, required)

See L</Metadata> below for shape.

=item * C<name> (string, required) - The name of the vector store.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<vector_store> .

Allowed values: vector_store

=item * C<status> (string, required) - The status of the vector store, which can be either C<expired> ,
C<in_progress> , or C<completed> . A status of C<completed> indicates that the
vector store is ready for use.

Allowed values: expired, in_progress, completed

=item * C<usage_bytes> (integer, required) - The total number of bytes used by the files in the vector store.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
