=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::vector_stores-vector_store_id-file_batches-batch_id-cancel - Documentation for the /vector_stores/{vector_store_id}/file_batches/{batch_id}/cancel path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 POST /vector_stores/{vector_store_id}/file_batches/{batch_id}/cancel

=head3 cancelVectorStoreFileBatch

  $client->cancel_vector_store_file_batch({
      body => { ... },
  });

Cancel a vector store file batch. This attempts to cancel the processing of
files in this batch as soon as possible.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<vector_store_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the vector store that the file batch belongs to.

=item * C<batch_id> (in path, required, string) - The ID of the file batch to cancel.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - OK>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "created_at" : 1698107661,
       "file_counts" : {
          "cancelled" : 0,
          "completed" : 100,
          "failed" : 0,
          "in_progress" : 0,
          "total" : 100
       },
       "id" : "vsfb_123",
       "object" : "vector_store.files_batch",
       "status" : "completed",
       "vector_store_id" : "vs_abc123"
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 VectorStoreFileBatchObject

Properties:

=over

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the vector store files batch was
created.

=item * C<file_counts> (object, required)

=item * C<id> (string, required) - The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<vector_store.file_batch> .

Allowed values: vector_store.files_batch

=item * C<status> (string, required) - The status of the vector store files batch, which can be either C<in_progress>
, C<completed> , C<cancelled> or C<failed> .

Allowed values: in_progress, completed, cancelled, failed

=item * C<vector_store_id> (string, required) - The ID of the
L<vector store|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/vector-stores/object>
that the L<File|https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/files> is
attached to.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
