=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path::videos-video_id - Documentation for the /videos/{video_id} path.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=head2 DELETE /videos/{video_id}

=head3 DeleteVideo

  $client->delete_video({
      body => { ... },
  });

Permanently delete a completed or failed video and its stored assets.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<video_id> (in path, required, string) - The identifier of the video to delete.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "deleted" : false,
       "id" : "string",
       "object" : "video.deleted"
    }

=head2 GET /videos/{video_id}

=head3 GetVideo

  $client->get_video({
      body => { ... },
  });

Fetch the latest metadata for a generated video.

=head4 Path/query parameters

=over

=item * C<video_id> (in path, required, string) - The identifier of the video to retrieve.

=back

=head4 Responses

B<200 - Success>

Content-Type: application/json

Example:

    {
       "completed_at" : 0,
       "created_at" : 0,
       "error" : {
          "code" : "string",
          "message" : "string"
       },
       "expires_at" : 0,
       "id" : "string",
       "model" : null,
       "object" : "video",
       "progress" : 0,
       "prompt" : "string",
       "remixed_from_video_id" : "string",
       "seconds" : "string",
       "size" : null,
       "status" : null
    }

=head1 SCHEMAS

=head2 DeletedVideoResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<deleted> (boolean, required) - Indicates that the video resource was deleted.

=item * C<id> (string, required) - Identifier of the deleted video.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type that signals the deletion response.

Allowed values: video.deleted

Default: video.deleted

=back

=head2 VideoModel

See L<https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference> for details.

=head2 VideoResource

Properties:

=over

=item * C<completed_at> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<created_at> (integer, required) - Unix timestamp (seconds) for when the job was created.

=item * C<error> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<expires_at> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<id> (string, required) - Unique identifier for the video job.

=item * C<model> (VideoModel, required) - The video generation model that produced the job.

See L</VideoModel> below for shape.

=item * C<object> (string, required) - The object type, which is always C<video> .

Allowed values: video

Default: video

=item * C<progress> (integer, required) - Approximate completion percentage for the generation task.

=item * C<prompt> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<remixed_from_video_id> (anyOf, required)

=item * C<seconds> (string, required) - Duration of the generated clip in seconds. For extensions, this is the
stitched total duration.

=item * C<size> (VideoSize, required) - The resolution of the generated video.

See L</VideoSize> below for shape.

=item * C<status> (VideoStatus, required) - Current lifecycle status of the video job.

See L</VideoStatus> below for shape.

=back

=head2 VideoSize

See L<https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference> for details.

=head2 VideoStatus

See L<https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference> for details.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OpenAPI::Client::OpenAI::Path>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023-2026 by Nelson Ferraz

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
