=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

YiJing::0x0c - Tong/ Ren/ (Listserv)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

"So you're all interested in the same thing.  See if you can all get
along!"

=head2 Judgment

    同人：同人于野，亨。利涉大川，利君子貞。

Getting to know other people in the world.  Fun.  Sifting through large
volume of discussions is good for diligent hackers.

=head2 Interpretation

    彖曰：同人，柔得位得中，而應乎乾，曰同人。
	  同人曰，同人于野，亨。利涉大川，乾行也。
	  文明以健，中正而應，君子正也。唯君子為能通天下之志。

When the empathetic nature of human interaction is applied to hacking,
mailing lists and forums are formed.

"Getting to know other people in the world" is a noble motivation to
hacking; it is what keeps great projects going.  A wise hacker should
correspond with character and honesty -- it is the only way to
communicate your ideas with people around the world.

=head2 Image

    象曰：天與火，同人﹔君子以類族辨物。

Hackers discussing their works
forms the Image of a Listserv.
People with similiar minds are bound together
to explore their common interests.

=head2 Lines

=over 4

=item *

    初九。同人于門。無咎。象曰。出門同人。又誰咎也。

Common interest, no trouble.

... People on the list share your interests; nobody will cause you
troubles.

=item *

    六二。同人于宗。吝。
    象曰。同人于宗。吝道也。

Infighting among the same camp.  Tough.

... Taking noncompromising positions on your kinfolks is the sure path
to infighting.

=item *

    九三：伏戎于莽，升其高陵，三歲不興。
    象曰：伏戎于莽，敵剛也。三歲不興，安行也。

Trolls everywhere with their holier-than-thou attitudes.  The list is
ruined for three years.

... The signal-to-noise ratio dropped significantly.  Find some other
place for people to calm down and talk again.

=item *

    九四：乘其墉，弗克攻，吉。
    象曰：乘其墉，義弗克也，其吉，則困而反則也。

Stick to the point, don't flame others.  Good fortune.

... Don't be provoked and stick to the point, so you can discuss
constructively; otherwise, the thread will stuck and get nowhere.

=item *

    九五：同人，先號啕而后笑。大師克相遇。
    象曰：同人之先，以中直也。大師相遇，言相克也。

Shouting and whining at first, now laughing together: Two camps are
clashed against each other.

... Before you make friends with others, don't reject their honest
criticisms.  When two camps meet, strong opinions are unavoidable.

=item *

    上九：同人于郊，無悔。
    象曰：同人于郊，志未得也。

The enthusiasm is getting thin, but there are no regrets.

... Although you did not complete the work you set out to do, the
members are still associated together.

=back

=cut

