=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

YiJing::0x38 - Xun\ (Data Flow)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

# XXX

=head2 Judgment

    巽。小亨。利攸往。利見大人。

Data flow brings moderate fun.  Good to move forward and meet helpful folks.

=head2 Interpretation

    彖曰。重巽以申命。剛巽乎中正而志行。柔皆順乎剛。
	  是以小亨。利有攸往。利見大人。

This hexagram is made of a pair of "Data Flow" trigrams.  The Data Flow
shows a tricky relationship -- you depend on the Data Flow, your system
is carefully adapted to it, but you can never really be sure that it
won't all break tomorrow.  This understandably leads to worry and
indecision.

=head2 Image

    象曰。隨風。巽。君子以申命行事。

To follow the Wind
is how one should handle the Data Flow.
A wise hacker should simply do
what the situation calls for,
instead of worrying about what to do.

=head2 Lines

=over 4

=item *

    初六。進退。利武人之貞。
    象曰。進退。志疑也。利武人之貞。志治也。

Choose any one, and stick with it.

... Pick something and sticking with it, instead of spending forever
fretting over which choice is better.

=item *

    九二。巽在床下。用史巫紛若。吉無咎。
    象曰。紛若之吉。得中也。

Consult an expert.

... Everything will be fine if you stop hiding under your desk
worrying about the situation, and go see an expert about it.

=item *

    九三。頻巽。吝。
    象曰。頻巽之吝。志窮也。

Here we go again.

... Too much of this kind of trouble over and over will burn you out.

=item *

    六四。悔亡。田獲三品。
    象曰。田獲三品。有功也。

Now that wasn't so bad, was it?

... You'll happily solve three kinds of problems at once.

=item *

    九五。貞吉悔亡。無不利。無初有終。先庚三日。后庚三日。吉。
    象曰。九五之吉。位正中也。

Preview and review.

... Go right ahead cheerfully.  It didn't start out well, but it will
end up just fine.  Test it three days before, and again three days
after.

=item *

    上九。巽在床下。喪其資斧。貞凶。
    象曰。巽在床下。上窮也。喪其資斧。正乎凶也。

Penny wise, pound foolish.

... You spent so long on this problem that you didn't see other fatal
problems coming.

=back

=cut
