=head1 NAME

Gantry::Docs - Table of Contents for Gantry documentation 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a list of the Gantry documentation pages.

=over 4

=item L<Gantry::Docs::About>
    About

Describes the history, features, and motivation behind Gantry.

=item L<Gantry::Docs::DBConn>
    Database connection information

Explains how database connection information flows from app configuration
to DBI.  The process should be seamless for app developers, but if you
need to work on the engines or add support for ORMs, you may find
useful information here.

=item L<Gantry::Docs::FAQ>
    FAQ

A list of questions we think people are likely to ask along with answers.
This is not a philosphical document, it is filled with code examples.

=item L<Gantry::Docs::QuickStart> 
    QuickStart

If you are new Gantry and want to get your first app running with a minimum
of fuss, this is for you.

=item L<Gantry::Docs::Tutorial>
    Tutorial

More detailed than the Quick Start, this document walks through building
a simple application with Gantry.

=item L<Gantry::Docs::Why>
    Why

Explains you should use a framework at all, whether it is Gantry or
one of the many others.

=back

=head1 JOIN US

Please visit http://www.usegantry.org for project information, 
sample applications, documentation and mailing list subscription instructions.

Web:
L<http://www.usegantry.org>

Mailing List:
L<http://www.usegantry.org/mailinglists/>

IRC:
#gantry on irc.slashnet.org

=head1 AUTHOR

Tim Keefer <tkeefer@gmail.com>

Phil Crow <philcrow2000@yahoo.com>

Gantry was branched from Krkit version 0.16 
Sat Jun 11 15:27:28 CDT 2005

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2005-6, Tim Keefer.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.8.6 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
