=pod


=head1 NAME

Chess - People


=head1 SYNOPSIS

A list of historical figures in chess.


=head1 DESCRIPTION


=head1 PEOPLE

=over 4

=item Alekhine, Alexander

Succeeded Capablanca as the champion in 1927 (the 4th). His combinations and sacrifices
were greatly admired. Died in 1946 while still the champion. World War II
prevented him from defending his title. One of the original five grandmasters named by
Czar Nicholas.

=item Anderssen, Adolf

=item Botvinnik, Mikhail ``Iron Mike''

Became world champion in 1948, succeeding Alekhine. He held the title for 15 years, but
with two interruptions.

=item Capablanca, Jose' Rau'l ``The Chess Machine''

A talented Cuban player, who achieved master status at the age of 14. He succeeded
Lasker as champion in 1921. He was known for his technique of achieving a slight
positional advantage, forcing a massive exchange of pieces, and finally 
outmaneuvering his opponent in the endgame.

=item Chigorin

The first world-class Russion chess player.
Considered to be the founder of the ``Russian School of Chess''.

=item Euwe, Max

A Dutch mathematics professor, an excellent strategist, and author of books on
chess. Gained the championship title from Alekhine in 1935, but lost it again
to him in 1937 in a devastating 4 to 10 return match loss.

=item Fischer, Robert James (``Bobby'')

This American won the 1972 championship, crushing Taimanov and Larson both by 6-0.
Retired from chess after winning the championship, returning in the 1990's for
a single match against Spassky. The first U.S. born world champion, and the youngest
grandmaster up to that time.

Born 1943-03-08.

=item Gruenfeld

The man for whom the Gruenfeld Defense and Gruenfeld Gambit are named.

=item Karpov, Anatoly

After Fischer refused to defend his title in 1975, Karpov became the champion.

=item Kasparov, Garry

Won the title in 1985 by 5-3 against Karpov. Formed the Professional Chess
Association (PCA).

=item Lasker, Emanuel

Won the first official world championship in 1894 at the age of 25 (in a match
against Steinitz). He remained world champion for 27 years.

=item Legall

The man for whom Legall's Mate is named.

=item Lo'pez, Ruy

A Spanish clergyman who studied chess intensively, writing books about it.
He invented the opening strategy that has become known as the Spanish Opening.

=item Marshall

Former U.S. champion. Coined the term swindle for a desperate trap that saves or
wins the game.

=item Morphy, Paul

Known for his elegant combinations, this American from New Orleans became 
the first unofficial world champion of chess in 1857. Retired from chess without
being defeated.

=item Pandolfini

Prolific author of chess books. National master. A main character in the book and
movie ``Searching for Bobby Fischer''.

=item Petrosian, Tigran

Beat Botvinnik in 1963 to win the title.

=item Philidor

Known for the phrase ``The pawns are the soul of chess.''

=item Polgar, Zsusza

One of a family of female chess players, she won the Women's World Championship.

=item Purdy, Cecil John Seddon (C.J.S.)

Born in 1906, he was four time Champion of Australia, an International Master,
and the first World Correspondence Chess Champion. He edited chess journals.
He died in 1979.

=item Reinfeld

National Master and author of many chess books.

=item Reti

A founder of the ``hypermodern'' school. Gave Capablaca his only tournament loss in
10 years.

=item Short, Nigel

The Englishman Kasparov beat to obtain the PCA title.

=item Smyslov, Vasily

Defeated Botvinnik in 1957, winning the title, but lost it again to him in 1958.

=item Spassky, Boris

Succeeded Petrosian as champion in 1969.

=item Staunton

Never won the title, but proclaimed himself world champion. Refused to play Morphy.

=item Steinitz, Wilhelm

Replaced Morphy as the unofficial world champion in 1866 by beating Adolf Anderssen in a match.
Known for his artful defenses and strategic attacks on enemy weaknesses. Also known
for some of his unusual moves, such as bringing his king to the center of the board
early in the game.

=item Tal, Mikhail

Obtained the title in 1960 from Botvinnik. Lost it back to him one year later in the
return match.

=item Timman

Dutch grandmaster who challenged Karpove for teh FIDE world championship when Kasparov
and Short formed the PCA.

=item Waitzkin

A young International Master. The main character of the book and movie ``Searching for Bobby Fischer''.

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Gregor N. Purdy (C<gregor@focusresearch.com>).


=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 1999-2006 Gregor N. Purdy. All rights reserved.

This program is free software. You may redistribute and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl iteself.

=cut

