=head1 NAME

B<gated2yaml> - convert B<gated> OSPF LSDB to YAML file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<gated2yaml>
[B<-D> F<dump>]
[B<-h>]
[B<-H> I<user@host>]
[B<-S> I<skip>]
[F<ospf.yaml>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<gated2yaml> takes the OSPF link state database of the gated routing
daemon and converts it into a YAML file.

The F<gated_dump> file containing the LSDB can be passed via command
line.
If no file is given, the B<gdc> command line tool is invoked to
gather the information dynamically.
For that the user must be I<root> to access the B<gdc> programm.
If necessary B<sudo> is used for calling B<gdc> to gain privileges.

Optionally one output file can be given on command line, otherwise
stdout is used.

The options are as follows:

=over 4

=item B<-D> F<dump>

File describing the internal state of the B<gated> process including
the OSPF link state database.
It can be obtained via B<gdc dump> manually.
If the file path is not given, B<gdc dump> is called automatically
and it is assumed that B<gated> writes its dump file to
F</var/tmp/gated_dump>.

=item B<-h>

Show help message and exit.

=item B<-H> I<user@host>

The specified user and host are used for ssh login and run B<gdc
dump> there.

=item B<-S> I<skip>

The F<gated_dump> file may contain several state snapshots separated
each starting with a form feed.
With this parameter greater than 0 not the first one is used.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

 gated2yaml | ospf2dot | dot

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The program dies if an error occurs.
Typical errors are B<gdc> failure or parsing errors of the F<gated_dump>
file.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSPF::LSDB::gated>,
L<OSPF::LSDB::YAML>,
L<OSPF::LSDB>

L<ospf2dot>

gdc(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

Alexander Bluhm
