=head1 NAME

B<ospfd2yaml> - convert OpenBSD B<ospfd> or B<ospf6d> LSDB to YAML file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ospfd2yaml>
[B<-B> F<boundary>]
[B<-E> F<external>]
[B<-h>]
[B<-H> I<user@host>]
[B<-I> F<selfid>]
[B<-N> F<network>]
[B<-R> F<router>]
[B<-S> F<summary>]
[F<ospf.yaml>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ospfd2yaml> takes the OSPF link state database of the OpenBSD
B<ospfd> or B<ospf6d> and converts it into a YAML file.

The several input files containing the LSDB can be passed via command
line.
If a file is not given, the B<ospfctl> or B<ospf6ctl> command line
tool is invoked on the local machine to gather the information
dynamically.
For that the user must be I<root> or in group I<wheel> to access
the F<ospfd.sock> or F<ospf6d.sock>.
If necessary B<sudo> is used for calling B<ospfctl> or B<ospf6ctl>
to gain privileges.

Optionally one output file can be given on command line, otherwise
stdout is used.

The options are as follows:

=over 4

=item B<-4>

Use B<ospfd> and B<ospfctl> as input for the OSPF v2 database.
This is the default.

=item B<-6>

Use B<ospf6d> and B<ospf6ctl> as input for the OSPF v3 database.

=item B<-B> F<boundary>

File describing the AS boundary routers summary-LSAs.
It can be obtained with B<ospfctl show database asbr>.

=item B<-E> F<external>

File describing the AS-external-LSAs.
It can be obtained with B<ospfctl show database external>.

=item B<-h>

Show help message and exit.

=item B<-H> I<user@host>

The specified user and host are used for ssh login and run B<ospfctl>
there.

=item B<-I> F<selfid>

File describing the router from witch the LSDB has been taken.
It can be obtained with B<ospfctl show summary>.

=item B<-L> F<link>

File describing the Link-LSAs.
It can be obtained with B<ospf6ctl show database link>.
This option may only be used with B<-6>.

=item B<-N> F<network>

File describing the network-LSAs.
It can be obtained with B<ospfctl show database network>.

=item B<-P> F<intra>

File describing the Intra-Area-Prefix-LSAs.
It can be obtained with B<ospf6ctl show database intra>.
This option may only be used with B<-6>.

=item B<-R> F<router>

File describing the router-LSAs.
It can be obtained with B<ospfctl show database router>.

=item B<-S> F<summary>

File describing the network summary-LSAs.
It can be obtained with B<ospfctl show database summary>.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

 ospfd2yaml | ospf2dot | dot

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The program dies if an error occurs.
Typical errors are B<ospfctl> or B<ospf6ctl> failure or parsing
errors of the LSDB files.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSPF::LSDB::ospfd>,
L<OSPF::LSDB::ospf6d>,
L<OSPF::LSDB::YAML>,
L<OSPF::LSDB>

L<ospf2dot>

ospfctl(8),
ospf6ctl(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

Alexander Bluhm
