=head1 NAME

B<ospf2dot> - convert OSPF LSDB YAML to Graphviz dot

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ospf2dot> [B<-46bBceEhlpPsSwWv>] [F<ospf.yaml>] [F<ospf.dot>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ospf2dot> takes an OSPF link state database in YAML format and
converts it into a Graphviz dot graph that shows the topology of
the autonomous system.
Per default only networks, router and links are displayed.
Other LSA types have to be turned on explicitly.

The regular color of the graph is gray, each area gets its own
brightness.
The OSPF LSDB is checked for consistency.
Erroneous vertexes or links get colored depending on the detected
problem.
The error messages can be displayed as tooltip in an SVG graph or
printed to stderr.

Optionally one input and one output file can be given on command
line, otherwise stdin and stdout are used.

The options are as follows:

=over 4

=item B<-4>

Disable IPv6.
Default is the address family in YAML input file.

=item B<-6>

Enable IPv6.
Default is the address family in YAML input file.

=item B<-b>

Display AS boundary router summary LSAs.

=item B<-B>

Display AS boundary router summary LSAs aggregated.
A single node contains all boundary routers advertised from the
same router.

=item B<-c>

Identical networks are clustered into a subgraph.
This visualizes duplicate networks.

=item B<-e>

Display AS extrnal LSAs.

=item B<-E>

Display AS extrnal LSAs aggregated.
A single node contains all external networks advertised from the
same router.

=item B<-h>

Show help message and exit.

=item B<-l>

Generate legend as dot graph which contains all kinds of nodes and
edges.
The corresponding OSPF object is explained.
Use B<-4> or B<-6> to choose the address family.
Unimplemented features are displayed in red.

=item B<-p>

Display IPv6 link and intra-area-prefix LSAs.

=item B<-P>

Display IPv6 intra-area-prefix LSAs.
They are constructed from the link LSAs by the designated router.

=item B<-s>

Display IP network summary LSAs.

=item B<-S>

Display IP network summary LSAs aggregated.
A single node contains all networks advertised from the same router.

=item B<-w>

Show the most serious warning in the dot graph.
That warning also accounts for the color.
If there is no warning, the area is displayed.

Note that this message is always shown as tool tip in SVG graphs.

=item B<-W>

Show the all areas and warnings in the dot graph.

=item B<-v>

Be verbose and print all warnings to stderr.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

 ospf2dot -BSE ospf.yaml | dot -Tsvg -o ospf.svg

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The program dies if an error occurs.
Typical errors are invalid YAML format, version of input file is
newer than this program so it cannot be converted or the content
of the YAML file is invalid.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSPF::LSDB::View>,
L<OSPF::LSDB::View6>,
L<OSPF::LSDB::YAML>,
L<OSPF::LSDB>

L<ospfview>

dot(1)

=head1 AUTHOR

Alexander Bluhm
