=head1 Toader AutoDoc Documentation

This copies over documentation from under
a Toader directory.

=head1 AutoDoc Storage

The directory $toaderDir.'/autodoc/' under a L<Toader> directory is used
for storing AutoDoc settings for that L<Toader> directory.

The file $toaderDir.'/autodoc/dirs' is to store the paths
under the that Toader that should be searched for
documentation. The paths in the file is are relative to
the L<Toader> directory in question and may not match any
of the  of the regular expressions below.

    ^\.\.
    \.\.$
    \/\.\.\/

Files are considered to be documentation if they match any of the regular
expressions below.

    /\/README$/
    /\/Changes$/
    /\/TODO$/
    /\.pm$/
    /\.[Pp][Oo][Dd]$/
    /\.[Tt][Xx][Tt]$/

=head1 Rendering

=head2 Content

The content for the AutoDoc page is rendered via L<Toader::Render::AutoDoc>->content.

The default template is as below.

    [== $g->autodocList ==]

The pass variables are as below.

    toader - The L<Toader> object.
    g - The L<Toader::Render::General> object.
    self - The L<Toader::Render::Entry> object.
    obj - The L<Toader::Entry> object.
    c - The L<Config::Tiny> object containing the L<Toader> config.

=head2 Output Rendering

The output directory used is $outputDir.'/'.$r2r.'/.autodoc' .

The index file, $outputDir.'/'.$r2r.'/.autodoc/index.html' , contains
rendered page. The rendered page is the page template filled in with
the variables below.

    toader - The L<Toader> object.
    g - The L<Toader::Render::General> object.
    self - The L<Toader::Render::Entry> object.
    obj - The L<Toader::Entry> object.
    c - The L<Config::Tiny> object containing the L<Toader> config.
    content - The output from the 'renderContent' method.

Once that is written out, the files are copied to
$outputDir.'/'.$r2r.'/.autodoc/.files/', with the page used the relative
path of copied documentation in regards to the L<Toader> directory in
question. POD files and Perl modules are passed through a POD to HTML
converter and have '.html' appended to the file name.

=cut
