=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

App::OnePif - Read 1Password Interchange Format exports

=head1 VERSION

This document describes App::OnePif version 0.002.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use App::OnePif;
   App::OnePif->run(@ARGV);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module implements an application to allow you to read 1Password
Interchange Format exports interactively and get info out of them.

Before you go on, remember that C<1pif> export directories are
I<unencrypted>. This means that they are I<not secure>. Look in section
L</SEE ALSO> for some projects that work directly on the encrypted
database.

Unless you want to fiddle with the module itself, you are probably
interested into program C<1pif>.

=head1 METHODS

All C<do_*> methods are actually tied to commands available in the
interactive shell. There are also some aliases set in L</run_interactive>.

=head2 DEFAULT_records

Automatically read records if they are not already loaded.

=head2 DEFAULT_types

Automatically desume record types from loaded recrods.

=head2 attachments_for

Get list of attachments for a record.

=head2 clear_records

Remove all records and autoloaded stuff (e.g. types).

=head2 clipped_records_bytype

Get a slice of available records, by type.

=head2 do_exit

Implementation of command C<exit> in the interactive shell.

=head2 do_file

Implementation of command C<file> in the interactive shell.

=head2 do_help

Implementation of command C<help> in the interactive shell.

=head2 do_list

Implementation of command C<list> in the interactive shell.

=head2 do_print

Implementation of command C<print> in the interactive shell.

=head2 do_quit

Implementation of command C<quit> in the interactive shell.

=head2 do_search

Implementation of command C<search> in the interactive shell.

=head2 do_type

Implementation of command C<type> in the interactive shell.

=head2 do_types

Implementation of command C<types> in the interactive shell.

=head2 print

Wrapper for printing out stuff in the interactive shell.

=head2 real_type

Get name of the I<main> type (resolving aliases if needed).

=head2 run

   App::OnePif->run(@ARGV);

Class method that eventually calls L</run_interactive> (hence,
it does not return).

=head2 run_interactive

Run the interactive shell. Does not return.

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

Report bugs either through RT or GitHub (patches welcome).


=head1 SEE ALSO

On GitHub you can find a few projects for dealing directly with the
original, I<encrypted> version of the 1Password database. For example, you
might want to check out the following projects:

=over

=item *

L<https://github.com/georgebrock/1pass>

=item *

L<https://github.com/oggy/1pass>

=item *

L<https://github.com/robertknight/passcards>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Flavio Poletti <polettix@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2016 by Flavio Poletti <polettix@cpan.org>

This module is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

=cut
