
=pod

=head1 NAME

Data::Range::Compare::Cookbook::Instance_and_Constants - Look inside the instance

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  package a_to_z;
  use strict;
  use warnings;
  use vars qw(@ISA @list %ids %helper);
  use Data::Range::Compare qw(:KEYS);
  @ISA=qw(Data::Range::Compare);

  use constant key_ids=>6;

  @list=('a' .. 'z');
  my $id=-1;
  %ids=map { ($_,++$id) } @list; 
  undef $id;

  $helper{add_one}=\&add_one;
  sub add_one {
    my $here=$ids{$_[0]};
    ++$here;
    return 'z' if $#list<$here;
    $list[$here]
  }

  $helper{sub_one}=\&sub_one;
  sub sub_one {
    my $here=$ids{$_[0]};
    --$here;
    return 'a' if $here<0;
    $list[$here]
  }
  sub cmp_values { $_[0] cmp $_[1] }
  $helper{cmp_values}=\&cmp_values;

  sub new{
    my ($class,$start,$end,$generated,$missing)=@_;
    my $s=$class->SUPER::new(\%helper,$start,$end,$generated,$missing);
    $s->[key_ids]=\%ids;
    $s;
  }

  sub letter_ids { %{$_[0]->[key_ids]} }

  sub range_compare { 
     my ($s,@args)=@_;
     $s->SUPER::range_compare(\%helper,@args) 
  }

  sub get_common_range {
    my ($class,@args)=@_;
    $class->SUPER::get_common_range(\%helper,@args);
  }

  sub first_letter () { $_[0]->[key_start] }

  sub last_letter () { $_[0]->[key_end] }

  1;

=head2 Using a_to_z.pm

Now you can create a perl script to load a_to_z and use the simplified functionality.

 use a_to_z;

 my $obj_a=a_to_z->new(qw(c f));
 my $obj_b=a_to_z->new(qw(a z));
 my $obj_c=a_to_z->new(qw(g j));

 $list=[ [$obj_a] ,[$obj_b] ,[$obj_c] ];
 $sub=a_to_z->range_compare($list);
 while(my @row=$sub->()) { 
  my ($obj_a,$obj_b,$obj_c)=@row;
  my $common_range=a_to_z-->get_common_range(\@row);
  print "\n";
  print "Common Range: $common_range\n";
  my ($obj_a,$obj_b,$obj_c)=@row;
  my $range_a_state=$obj_a->missing ?
       'Not in set a'
       :
       'in set a';
       my $range_b_state=$obj_b->missing ?
       'Not in set b'
       :
       'in set b';
       my $range_c_state=$obj_c->missing ?
       'Not in set c'
       :
       'in set c';

       print "Range_a: $obj_a is $range_a_state\n";
       print "Range_b: $obj_b is $range_b_state\n";
       print "Range_c: $obj_c is $range_c_state\n";
 }

 Output:
 Common Range: a - b
 Range_a: a - b is Not in set a
 Range_b: a - z is in set b
 Range_c: a - f is Not in set c

 Common Range: c - f
 Range_a: c - f is in set a
 Range_b: a - z is in set b
 Range_c: a - f is Not in set c

 Common Range: g - j
 Range_a: g - z is Not in set a
 Range_b: a - z is in set b
 Range_c: g - j is in set c

 Common Range: k - z
 Range_a: g - z is Not in set a
 Range_b: a - z is in set b
 Range_c: k - z is Not in set c

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Simple example demonstrating HOWTO subclass the "a to z" example

=head2 CONSTANTS

Data::Range::Compare instances are array references and use numeric entries to identify each element.

=over 4

=item * key_helper

This constant represents the position of \%helper in the array instance.

  The value of key_helper is 0

=item * key_start

This constant represents the position of $start in this instance.

  The value of key_start is 1

=item * key_end

This constant represents the position of $end in this instance.

  The value of key_end is 2

=item * key_generated

This constant represents the position of $generated in this instance.

  The value of key_generated is 3

=item * key_missing

This constant represents the position of $missing in this instance.

  The value of key_missing is 4

=item * key_key_data

This constant represents the position of $key_data in this instance.

  The value of key_key_data is 5

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Michael Shipper

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2010 Michael Shipper.  All rights reserved.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Data::Range::Compare::Cookbook perlboot

=cut

