h1. Catalyst::Model::ISBNDB - Access to the isbndb.com API as a Catalyst model

Version: 0.21

h2. WHAT IS IT

This is a module to provide programmatic access to the database of book and author information hosted by isbndb.com (see http://isbndb.com) to a Catalyst application, as a Model in the MVC scheme. To access the API provided by the site, you will have to register a user account and create an access key.

h2. BUILDING/INSTALLING

This package is set up to configure and build like a typical Perl extension.  To build:

<pre>
<code>
        perl Makefile.PL
        make all
        make test
</code>
</pre>

If Catalyst::Model::ISBNDB passes all tests, then:

<pre>
<code>
        make install
</code>
</pre>

You may need super-user access to install.

h2. PROBLEMS/BUG REPORTS

Please send any reports of problems or bugs to rjray@blackperl.com

h2. CHANGES

* t/00_signature.t (deleted)

p{margin-bottom:2em}. Deprecated test.

* ChangeLog (deleted)
* MANIFEST (deleted)
* Makefile (deleted)

p{margin-bottom:2em}. Deprecated files.

* t/01_pod.t
* t/02_pod_coverage.t
* t/03_meta.t (added)
* t/04_minimumversion.t (added)
* t/05_critic.t (added)

p{margin-bottom:2em}. Three new test suites added, two modified to run as developer-only tests.

* lib/Catalyst/Helper/Model/ISBNDB.pm
* lib/Catalyst/Model/ISBNDB.pm

p{margin-bottom:2em}. Fixed license docs, other code-cleanliness changes.

* README (deleted)
* README.textile (added)

p{margin-bottom:2em}. Replace README with README.textile and associated logic in Build.PL.
