=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

TCOD - FFI bindings for libtcod

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use TCOD;
    use File::Share 'dist_file';

    use constant {
        WIDTH  => 80,
        HEIGHT => 60,
    };

    my $tileset = TCOD::Tileset->load_tilesheet(
        path    => dist_file( TCOD => 'fonts/dejavu10x10_gs_tc.png' ),
        columns => 32,
        rows    => 8,
        charmap => TCOD::CHARMAP_TCOD,
    );

    my $context = TCOD::Context->new(
        columns => WIDTH,
        rows    => HEIGHT,
        tileset => $tileset,
    );

    my $console = $context->new_console;

    while (1) {
        $console->clear;
        $console->print( 0, 0, 'Hello World!' );
        $context->present( $console );

        my $iter = TCOD::Event::wait;
        while ( my $event = $iter->() ) {
            $context->convert_event($event);
            print $event->as_string . "\n";
            exit if $event->type eq 'QUIT';
        }
    }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TCOD offers Perl bindings to libtcod, a library for developing roguelike games.

If you're getting started, see L<TCOD::Context> to manage rendering contexts
and L<TCOD::Tileset> to load custom fonts to display. L<TCOD::Event> can be
used to interact with input and system events. If you want to calculate
line-of-sight within a map you can use L<TCOD::Map>, which can also be used
by L<TCOD::Path> for path-finding.

=head2 On Stability

This distribution is currently B<experimental>, and as such, its API might
still change without warning. Any change, breaking or not, will be noted in
the change log, so if you wish to use it, please pin your dependencies and
make sure to check the change log before upgrading.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 get_error

    $string = TCOD::get_error;

Get the current error message, if any.

Some functions (eg. L<TCOD::Context::new|TCOD::Context/new> will set this
string on error. When an error is indicated, you can use this method to
retrieve the error.

The string returned by this function is only meaningful if an error has been
indicated by some other function, and will only remain meaningful until a new
function that uses this mechanism is called.

=head1 ENUMS

The enums listed below are available as constants like the ones defined using
L<constant>, which means the same caveats apply here.

To provide introspection into the values of the enums, they are also made
available as package variables with the names of each enum. This makes it
possible to get the name of a value in a given enum with code like the
following:

    say $TCOD::Alignment{ TCOD::LEFT }; # Prints 'LEFT'

=head2 Alignment

=over

=item * TCOD::LEFT

=item * TCOD::RIGHT

=item * TCOD::CENTER

=back

=head2 Charmap

=over

=item * TCOD::CHARMAP_TCOD

=item * TCOD::CHARMAP_CP437

=back

=head2 Renderer

=over

=item * TCOD::RENDERER_GLSL

=item * TCOD::RENDERER_OPENGL

=item * TCOD::RENDERER_SDL

=item * TCOD::RENDERER_SDL2

=item * TCOD::RENDERER_OPENGL2

=item * TCOD::NB_RENDERERS

=back

=head2 BackgroundFlag

This flag is used by most functions that modify a cell background colour. It
defines how the console's current background color is used to modify the
cell's existing background color.

See the documentation for L<TCOD::Color|TCOD::Color/COLOR ARITHMETIC> for
details on how color arithmetic works when referenced below.

When equations are listed below, these are applied to each individual
component in turn, with C<new> being the component for the new color, C<old>
being the one for the current one, and C<white> standing in for the maximum
value for a color component (255).

=over

=item * TCOD::BKGND_NONE

The cell's background is not modified.

=item * TCOD::BKGND_SET

The cell's background is replaced with the new color.

=item * TCOD::BKGND_MULTIPLY

The cell's background is multiplied with the new color.

=item * TCOD::BKGND_LIGHTEN

Each of the components of the cell's background is replaced with the
respective component of the new color if it is lighter.

=item * TCOD::BKGND_DARKEN

Each of the components of the cell's background is replaced with the
respective component of the new color if it is darker.

=item * TCOD::BKGND_SCREEN

The cell's background color is modified according to the following operation:

    white - ( white - old ) * ( white - new )

=item * TCOD::BKGND_COLOR_DODGE

The cell's background color is modified according to the following operation:

    new / ( white - old )

=item * TCOD::BKGND_COLOR_BURN

The cell's background color is modified according to the following operation:

    white - ( white - old ) / new

=item * TCOD::BKGND_ADD

The new color is added to the cell's background.

=item * TCOD::BKGND_ADDALPHA

Use this as a macro with a float parameter between 0 and 1. The cell's
background color is modified according to the following operation:

    old + alpha * new

=item * TCOD::BKGND_BURN

The cell's background color is modified according to the following operation:

    old + new - white

=item * TCOD::BKGND_OVERLAY

The cell's background color is modified according to the following operation:

    2 * new * old                                 # if the component is >= 128
    white - 2 * ( white - new ) * ( white - old ) # if the component is <  128

=item * TCOD::BKGND_ALPHA

Use this as a macro with a float parameter between 0 and 1. The cell's
background color is modified according to the following operation:

    ( 1 - alpha ) * old + alpha * ( new - old )

=item * TCOD::BKGND_DEFAULT

Use the console's default background flag. See
L<TCOD::Console::set_background_flag|TCOD::Console/set_background_flag>.

=back

=head2 ColorControl

=over

=item * TCOD::COLCTRL_1

=item * TCOD::COLCTRL_2

=item * TCOD::COLCTRL_3

=item * TCOD::COLCTRL_4

=item * TCOD::COLCTRL_5

=item * TCOD::COLCTRL_NUMBER

=item * TCOD::COLCTRL_FORE_RGB

=item * TCOD::COLCTRL_BACK_RGB

=item * TCOD::COLCTRL_STOP

=back

=head2 Keycode

=over

=item * TCOD::K_NONE

=item * TCOD::K_ESCAPE

=item * TCOD::K_BACKSPACE

=item * TCOD::K_TAB

=item * TCOD::K_ENTER

=item * TCOD::K_SHIFT

=item * TCOD::K_CONTROL

=item * TCOD::K_ALT

=item * TCOD::K_PAUSE

=item * TCOD::K_CAPSLOCK

=item * TCOD::K_PAGEUP

=item * TCOD::K_PAGEDOWN

=item * TCOD::K_END

=item * TCOD::K_HOME

=item * TCOD::K_UP

=item * TCOD::K_LEFT

=item * TCOD::K_RIGHT

=item * TCOD::K_DOWN

=item * TCOD::K_PRINTSCREEN

=item * TCOD::K_INSERT

=item * TCOD::K_DELETE

=item * TCOD::K_LWIN

=item * TCOD::K_RWIN

=item * TCOD::K_APPS

=item * TCOD::K_0

=item * TCOD::K_1

=item * TCOD::K_2

=item * TCOD::K_3

=item * TCOD::K_4

=item * TCOD::K_5

=item * TCOD::K_6

=item * TCOD::K_7

=item * TCOD::K_8

=item * TCOD::K_9

=item * TCOD::K_KP0

=item * TCOD::K_KP1

=item * TCOD::K_KP2

=item * TCOD::K_KP3

=item * TCOD::K_KP4

=item * TCOD::K_KP5

=item * TCOD::K_KP6

=item * TCOD::K_KP7

=item * TCOD::K_KP8

=item * TCOD::K_KP9

=item * TCOD::K_KPADD

=item * TCOD::K_KPSUB

=item * TCOD::K_KPDIV

=item * TCOD::K_KPMUL

=item * TCOD::K_KPDEC

=item * TCOD::K_KPENTER

=item * TCOD::K_F1

=item * TCOD::K_F2

=item * TCOD::K_F3

=item * TCOD::K_F4

=item * TCOD::K_F5

=item * TCOD::K_F6

=item * TCOD::K_F7

=item * TCOD::K_F8

=item * TCOD::K_F9

=item * TCOD::K_F10

=item * TCOD::K_F11

=item * TCOD::K_F12

=item * TCOD::K_NUMLOCK

=item * TCOD::K_SCROLLLOCK

=item * TCOD::K_SPACE

=item * TCOD::K_CHAR

=item * TCOD::K_TEXT

=back

=head2 Char

=over

=item * TCOD::CHAR_HLINE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_VLINE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_NE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_NW

=item * TCOD::CHAR_SE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_SW

=item * TCOD::CHAR_TEEW

=item * TCOD::CHAR_TEEE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_TEEN

=item * TCOD::CHAR_TEES

=item * TCOD::CHAR_CROSS

=item * TCOD::CHAR_DHLINE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_DVLINE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_DNE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_DNW

=item * TCOD::CHAR_DSE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_DSW

=item * TCOD::CHAR_DTEEW

=item * TCOD::CHAR_DTEEE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_DTEEN

=item * TCOD::CHAR_DTEES

=item * TCOD::CHAR_DCROSS

=item * TCOD::CHAR_BLOCK1

=item * TCOD::CHAR_BLOCK2

=item * TCOD::CHAR_BLOCK3

=item * TCOD::CHAR_ARROW_N

=item * TCOD::CHAR_ARROW_S

=item * TCOD::CHAR_ARROW_E

=item * TCOD::CHAR_ARROW_W

=item * TCOD::CHAR_ARROW2_N

=item * TCOD::CHAR_ARROW2_S

=item * TCOD::CHAR_ARROW2_E

=item * TCOD::CHAR_ARROW2_W

=item * TCOD::CHAR_DARROW_H

=item * TCOD::CHAR_DARROW_V

=item * TCOD::CHAR_CHECKBOX_UNSET

=item * TCOD::CHAR_CHECKBOX_SET

=item * TCOD::CHAR_RADIO_UNSET

=item * TCOD::CHAR_RADIO_SET

=item * TCOD::CHAR_SUBP_NW

=item * TCOD::CHAR_SUBP_NE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_SUBP_N

=item * TCOD::CHAR_SUBP_SE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_SUBP_DIAG

=item * TCOD::CHAR_SUBP_E

=item * TCOD::CHAR_SUBP_SW

=item * TCOD::CHAR_SMILIE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_SMILIE_INV

=item * TCOD::CHAR_HEART

=item * TCOD::CHAR_DIAMOND

=item * TCOD::CHAR_CLUB

=item * TCOD::CHAR_SPADE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_BULLET

=item * TCOD::CHAR_BULLET_INV

=item * TCOD::CHAR_MALE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_FEMALE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_NOTE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_NOTE_DOUBLE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_LIGHT

=item * TCOD::CHAR_EXCLAM_DOUBLE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_PILCROW

=item * TCOD::CHAR_SECTION

=item * TCOD::CHAR_POUND

=item * TCOD::CHAR_MULTIPLICATION

=item * TCOD::CHAR_FUNCTION

=item * TCOD::CHAR_RESERVED

=item * TCOD::CHAR_HALF

=item * TCOD::CHAR_ONE_QUARTER

=item * TCOD::CHAR_COPYRIGHT

=item * TCOD::CHAR_CENT

=item * TCOD::CHAR_YEN

=item * TCOD::CHAR_CURRENCY

=item * TCOD::CHAR_THREE_QUARTERS

=item * TCOD::CHAR_DIVISION

=item * TCOD::CHAR_GRADE

=item * TCOD::CHAR_UMLAUT

=item * TCOD::CHAR_POW1

=item * TCOD::CHAR_POW3

=item * TCOD::CHAR_POW2

=item * TCOD::CHAR_BULLET_SQUARE

=back

=head2 FontFlag

=over

=item * TCOD::FONT_LAYOUT_ASCII_INCOL

=item * TCOD::FONT_LAYOUT_ASCII_INROW

=item * TCOD::FONT_TYPE_GREYSCALE

=item * TCOD::FONT_TYPE_GRAYSCALE

=item * TCOD::FONT_LAYOUT_TCOD

=item * TCOD::FONT_LAYOUT_CP437

=back

=head2 FOV

=over

=item * TCOD::FOV_BASIC

=item * TCOD::FOV_DIAMOND

=item * TCOD::FOV_SHADOW

=item * TCOD::FOV_PERMISSIVE_0

=item * TCOD::FOV_PERMISSIVE_1

=item * TCOD::FOV_PERMISSIVE_2

=item * TCOD::FOV_PERMISSIVE_3

=item * TCOD::FOV_PERMISSIVE_4

=item * TCOD::FOV_PERMISSIVE_5

=item * TCOD::FOV_PERMISSIVE_6

=item * TCOD::FOV_PERMISSIVE_7

=item * TCOD::FOV_PERMISSIVE_8

=item * TCOD::FOV_RESTRICTIVE

=item * TCOD::FOV_SYMMETRIC_SHADOWCAST

=item * TCOD::NB_FOV_ALGORITHMS

=back

=head2 RandomAlgo

=over

=item * TCOD::RNG_MT

=item * TCOD::RNG_CMWC

=back

=head2 Distribution

These values are used by L<TCOD::Random> to generate random numbers.

=over

=item * TCOD::DISTRIBUTION_LINEAR

This is the default distribution. It will return a number from a range
min-max. The numbers will be evenly distributed, ie, each number from the
range has the exact same chance of being selected.

=item * TCOD::DISTRIBUTION_GAUSSIAN

This distribution does not have minimum and maximum values. Instead, a mean
and a standard deviation are used. The mean is the central value. It will
appear with the greatest frequency. The farther away from the mean, the less
the probability of appearing the possible results have. Although extreme
values are possible, 99.7% of the results will be within the radius of 3
standard deviations from the mean. So, if the mean is 0 and the standard
deviation is 5, the numbers will mostly fall in the (-15,15) range.

=item * TCOD::DISTRIBUTION_GAUSSIAN_RANGE

This one takes minimum and maximum values. Under the hood, it computes the
mean (which falls right between the minimum and maximum) and the standard
deviation and applies a standard Gaussian distribution to the values. The
difference is that the result is always guaranteed to be in the min-max
range.

=item * TCOD::DISTRIBUTION_GAUSSIAN_INVERSE

Essentially, this is the same as C<TCOD::DISTRIBUTION_GAUSSIAN>. The
difference is that the values near +3 and -3 standard deviations from the
mean have the highest possibility of appearing, while the mean has the lowest.

=item * TCOD::DISTRIBUTION_GAUSSIAN_RANGE_INVERSE

Essentially, this is the same as C<TCOD::DISTRIBUTION_GAUSSIAN_RANGE>, but
the min and max values have the greatest probability of appearing, while the
values between them, the lowest.

=back

=head2 NoiseType

=over

=item * TCOD::NOISE_PERLIN

=item * TCOD::NOISE_SIMPLEX

=item * TCOD::NOISE_WAVELET

=item * TCOD::NOISE_DEFAULT

=back

=head2 Event

=over

=item * TCOD::EVENT_NONE

=item * TCOD::EVENT_KEY_PRESS

=item * TCOD::EVENT_KEY_RELEASE

=item * TCOD::EVENT_MOUSE_MOVE

=item * TCOD::EVENT_MOUSE_PRESS

=item * TCOD::EVENT_MOUSE_RELEASE

=item * TCOD::EVENT_KEY

=item * TCOD::EVENT_MOUSE

=item * TCOD::EVENT_ANY

=back

=head1 SHARE DATA

This distribution bundles some data to make development simpler.

You can make use of this data with a distribution like L<File::Share>,
like in this example:

    use File::Share 'dist_file';
    my $path = dist_file TCOD => 'fonts/dejavu10x10_gs_tc.png';

The C<fonts> directory contains antialiased fonts that can be used with
TCOD. The names of the font files are of the form:

    <font_name><font_size>_<type>_<layout>.png

    <type>   : aa 32 bits png with alpha channel
               gs 24 bits or greyscale PNG

    <layout> : as standard ASCII layout
               ro standard ASCII layout in row
               tc TCOD layout

The C<terminal8x8> font is provided is every possible format as en example.

The structure of shared files is reproduced below.

    share
    └── fonts
        ├── dejavu10x10_gs_tc.png
        ├── dejavu12x12_gs_tc.png
        ├── dejavu16x16_gs_tc.png
        ├── dejavu8x8_gs_tc.png
        ├── dejavu_wide12x12_gs_tc.png
        ├── dejavu_wide16x16_gs_tc.png
        ├── terminal10x10_gs_tc.png
        ├── terminal10x16_gs_ro.png
        ├── terminal10x16_gs_tc.png
        ├── terminal10x18_gs_ro.png
        ├── terminal12x12_gs_ro.png
        ├── terminal16x16_gs_ro.png
        ├── terminal7x7_gs_tc.png
        ├── terminal8x12_gs_ro.png
        ├── terminal8x12_gs_tc.png
        ├── terminal8x14_gs_ro.png
        ├── terminal8x8_aa_ro.png
        ├── terminal8x8_aa_tc.png
        ├── terminal8x8_gs_ro.png
        ├── terminal8x8_gs_tc.png
        └── ucs-fonts
            └── 4x6.bdf

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<TCOD::Color>

=item L<TCOD::ColorRGBA>

=item L<TCOD::Console>

=item L<TCOD::Context>

=item L<TCOD::Dijkstra>

=item L<TCOD::Event>

=item L<TCOD::Image>

=item L<TCOD::Key>

=item L<TCOD::Map>

=item L<TCOD::Mouse>

=item L<TCOD::Noise>

=item L<TCOD::Path>

=item L<TCOD::Random>

=item L<TCOD::Sys>

=item L<TCOD::Tileset>

=back

Also, these other external resources might be useful:

=over

=item L<libtcod|https://github.com/libtcod/libtcod>

=item L<rogueliketutorials.com|https://rogueliketutorials.com>

=item L</r/roguelikedev|https://www.reddit.com/r/roguelikedev>

=item L<RogueBasin|http://roguebasin.com>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2021 José Joaquín Atria

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the Artistic License 2.0.
