=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::SOAP::WSS - Web Service Security used in SOAP

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::SOAP::WSS
   is a XML::Compile::SOAP::Extension

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use XML::Compile::SOAP::WSDL11;
 use XML::Compile::SOAP::WSS;

 # strict order of instantiation!
 my $wss  = XML::Compile::SOAP::WSS->new; # hooks WSDL parser
 my $wsdl = XML::Compile::WSDL11->new($wsdlfn);    

 my $auth = $wss->basicAuth               # add Security record
   ( username => $user
   , password => $password
   );

 # Will include all defined security features
 my $call     = $wsdl->compileClient($opname);
 my ($answer, $trace) = $call->(%data);

 # Only explicit security features:
 my $call     = $wsdl->compileClient($opname);
 my ($answer, $trace) = $call->(wsse_Security => $auth, %data);

 my @features = ($auth, ...);    # any selection of features
 my $answer   = $call->(wsse_Security => \@features, %data);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Web Service Security protocol is implemented in the sub-classes of
L<XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS>. This module integrates WSS features in SOAP usage.

This module is an XML::Compile::SOAP::Extension; a plugin for the
SOAP infra-structure.  Many of these extension protocols behave badly:
they usually interfere with the WSDL specification.  Therefore, all
B<WSDL plugins> have to be instantiated before the WSDL files get read,
i.e. before the WSDL object itself gets instantiated.  The use of the
information can only take place when all schema's are read, so these
security features can only be created after that.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item XML::Compile::SOAP::WSS-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option--Default
  schema  undef

=over 2

=item schema => L<XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache> object

Do not use this in combination with a WSDL, but always in any other case.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addFeature>($wssobj)

Add a new L<XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS> object to the list of maintained features.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<features>()

Returns a list of all security features.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schema>()

=back

=head2 Security features

Create one or more of these "features", components in the security
header.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<basicAuth>(%options)

Implements username/password authentication.
See documentation in L<XML::Compile::WSS::BasicAuth|XML::Compile::WSS::BasicAuth>.  The %options are
passed to its new() method.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<signature>(%options)

Put a crypto signature on one or more elements.
See documentation in L<XML::Compile::WSS::Signature|XML::Compile::WSS::Signature>.  The %options are
passed to its new() method.

 -Option    --Default
  sign_types  'SOAP-ENV:Body'

=over 2

=item sign_types => ARRAY

[1.08] specify the types of elements which need to be signed.  If you
have more elements of the same type, they will all get signed.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<timestamp>(%options)

Adds a timestamp record to the Security header.
See documentation in L<XML::Compile::WSS::Timestamp|XML::Compile::WSS::Timestamp>.  The %options are
passed to its new() method.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-WSS distribution version 1.14,
built on May 08, 2017. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile> .
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2011-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the Artistic license.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/artistic.html>

