=pod

=head1 NAME

I<MIME::Mini> - Minimal code to parse/create mbox files and mail messages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use MIME::Mini ':all';

or:

 use MIME::Mini qw(
     formail mail2str mail2multipart mail2singlepart mail2mbox
     insert_header append_header replace_header delete_header
     insert_part append_part replace_part delete_part
     header headers header_names
     param mimetype encoding filename
     body message parts
     newparam newmail
 );

 # Parse mbox file, doing something with each mail message
 formail(sub { <> }, sub { my $mail = shift; ...; })

 # Create an email with text/plain, image/png, and message/rfc822 attachments
 my $mail = newmail
 (
     To => 'you@there.com',
     From => 'me@here.com',
     Subject => 'test',
     parts => [
         newmail(body => "hi\n"),
         newmail(body => $png, type => 'image/png', filename => 'hi.png'),
         newmail(message => newmail(qw(To to@you From from@me body hi")))
     ]
 );
 print mail2str($mail);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<MIME::Mini> is a collection of functions that parse and produce mailbox
files and individual mail messages. It started out as I<minimail>, a
non-module cut-and-paste version, intended to be compact enough to cut and
paste directly into perl scripts that don't want to require non-standard
perl modules. I<MIME::Mini> is for people that prefer a CPAN module.

It is intended to be yet another alternative to I<MIME-tools>. I<MIME-tools>
does things that this code doesn't (such as uuencode and binhex decoding).
And I<MIME::Mini> does things that I<MIME-tools> doesn't such as reading and
writing mailbox files correctly (repairing incorrectly formatted ones along
the way), and transparently unravelling C<winmail.dat> attachments (aka
I<MS-TNEF>). I<MIME::Mini> is much smaller (about 3% of the size of
I<MIME-tools> and the other modules it requires, and about 20% of the size
of I<MIME-Lite> (which doesn't parse)), and so takes much less time during
program start up.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item formail(sub { <> }, sub { $mail = shift })

Parses a mailbox or a mail message. Calls the first function argument to
retrieve input lines and calls the second function argument with every mail
message found. Terminates when the first argument returns undef or when the
second function returns false. Quoted C<From_> lines are unquoted.

=item mail2str($mail)

Returns a string version of a mail message. If the mail message includes a
mailbox header, lines in the body starting with C<From_> are quoted and the
string result will definitely be terminated with a blank line. This means
that mailbox files with blank lines missing between mail messages and with
unquoted C<From_> lines will be automatically repaired with the code below
(Incidentally, malformed nested multipart body parts are also repaired).

 formail(sub { <> }, sub { print mail2str(shift) });

=item mail2multipart($mail)

Converts a singlepart mail message into a multipart mail message with a
single body part (i.e. the body of the original mail message). Returns the
mail message. Does nothing to mail messages that are already multipart mail
messages.

=item mail2singlepart($mail)

Converts a multipart mail message with a single body part into a singlepart
mail message whose body is the original body part. Returns the mail message.
Does nothing to mail messages that are already singlepart mail messages or
multipart mail messages with multiple parts. Acts recursively.

=item mail2mbox($mail)

Converts a mail message into an mailbox item. Does nothing to mail messages
that are already mailbox items. This affects the result of I<mail2str()>.

=item insert_header($mail, $header[, $language[, $charset]])

Inserts a new mail header before any existing mail headers. If the header
contains non-ascii characters, it will be encoded in accordance with
RFC2047. If the I<$language> and I<$charset> parameters are not supplied,
they default to C<en> and C<iso-8859-1> (if possible, C<utf-8> otherwise),
respectively.

=item append_header($mail, $header[, $language[, $charset]])

Appends a new mail header after any existing mail headers.

=item replace_header($mail, $header[, $language[, $charset]])

Replaces all instances of a mail header with a new mail header.

=item delete_header($mail, $header, $recurse)

Deletes all headers that match the I<$header> pattern. If the I<$recurse>
parameter is provided and non-zero, matching headers in internal body parts
will also be deleted.

=item insert_part($mail, $part, $index)

Inserts the given body part at the given index. The I<$part> parameter must
have been produced by I<formail()> or I<newmail()>. The I<$mail> parameter
must already be a multipart mail message.

=item append_part($mail, $part)

Appends the given body part.

=item replace_part($mail, $part, $index)

Replaces the body part at the given index with the given body part.

=item delete_part($mail, $index)

Deletes the body part at the given index.

=item header($mail, $header)

Returns a list of values of headers with the given name. RFC2822 comments
are removed. If any of the values contain RFC2047 encoded words (i.e.
C<=?charset?[qb]?...?=>), they are decoded, and the bytes in the given
charset (e.g., C<us-ascii>, C<iso-8859-*>, C<utf-8>) are then decoded into
"characters" (i.e., unicode codepoints). They are also unfolded. If this is
not what you want, use $mail->{header} or $mail->{headers} directly.

=item headers($mail)

Returns a list of all complete headers with decoding and unfolding performed
as with I<header()>.

=item header_names($mail)

Returns a list of the names of headers present in the given mail message.

=item param($mail, $header, $param)

Returns the value of the given parameter of the given MIME header of the
given mail message. I<header()> is used for RFC2047 decoding. If the
parameter has been split or encoded in accordance with RFC2231 (i.e.
C<param1*0="a" param1*1="b" param2*="charset'lang'%63">), it is decoded (if
C<us-ascii> or C<iso-8859-*> or C<utf-8>) and reassembled.

=item mimetype($mail, $parent)

Returns the declared or default mimetype of the given mail message or body
part. Returns C<octet/application> when the encoding is invalid.

=item encoding($mail)

Returns the declared or implied encoding of the given mail message or body
part.

=item filename($part)

Returns the RFC2183 filename of the given body part. Uses I<param()> to
perform any decoding that might be necessary. Also removes any directory
component of the filename and replaces any unfriendly characters with dash
characters.

=item body($mail)

Returns the decoded body of the given mail message or body part. Must not be
called on a multipart mail message or a mail message whose mimetype is
C<message/rfc822>.

=item message($mail)

Returns the message inside the given mail message whose mimetype is
C<message/rfc822>. Must not be called on a multipart message or a mail
message whose mimetype is not C<message/rfc822>.

=item parts($mail[, $parts])

When no I<$parts> parameter is given, returns a reference to an array of
body parts in the given multipart message. When the I<$parts> parameter is
given, it is a reference to an array of body parts, and it will replace the
existing body parts. Must not be called on a singlepart mail message.

=item newparam($name, $value[, $language[, $charset]]])

Creates a MIME header parameter, possibly split and encoded in accordance
with RFC2231. Returns a string that looks like C<"; name=value"> which can
be used as part of the I<$header> argument in functions like
I<append_header()> and as part of any header value in the function
I<newmail()>. If the value contains non-ascii characters, and the
I<$language> and I<$charset> parameters are not supplied, they default to
C<en> and C<utf-8> or C<iso-8859-1>, respectively.

=item newmail(...)

Creates a new mail message based on the given arguments (which take the form
of a hash). It is not necessary to supply all information. Anything that
needs to be added will be added automatically. The important parameters are:

 [A-Z]*      - Arbitrary mail headers: e.g. From To Subject
 type        - Content-Type: e.g. image/png
 charset     - Content-Type's charset parameter: e.g. iso-8859-1
 encoding    - Content-Transfer-Encoding: e.g. base64
 filename    - Content-Disposition's filename parameter
 body        - body of the message (don't use with parts or message)
 parts       - array-ref of parts (don't use with body or message)
 message     - body of message/rfc822 message (don't use with body or parts)
 mbox        - Mbox From_ header

Supplying I<body> implies C<text/plain>. Supplying I<parts> implies
C<multipart/mixed>. Supplying I<message> implies C<message/rfc822>. Default
I<disposition> is C<inline> for C<text/*> and C<message/rfc822>, or
C<attachment> for all other types. The default I<charset> is C<us-ascii>
when I<body> contains only ASCII bytes. Otherwise, it is C<utf-8> when
I<body> is a valid UTF-8 byte sequence. Otherwise, it is your local
(non-utf8) charset, or C<iso-8859-1>. Default I<encoding> is determined from
the type and nature of the mail message and its data. You shouldn't have to
supply I<encoding> unless you want to create messages with C<8bit> encoding.
If the mail message really is a mail message, and not just a body part,
C<Date>, C<MIME-Version> and C<Message-ID> headers are automatically
included if they have not been supplied by the caller.

Less important parameters are:

 disposition - Content-Disposition: i.e. inline or attachment
 created     - Content-Disposition's creation-date parameter
 modified    - Content-Disposition's modification-date parameter
 read        - Content-Disposition's read-date parameter
 size        - Content-Disposition's size parameter
 description - Content-Description
 language    - Content-Language
 duration    - Content-Duration
 location    - Content-Location
 base        - Content-Base
 features    - Content-Features
 alternative - Content-Alternative
 id          - Content-ID
 md5         - Content-MD5

Note: If you supply C<filename> but not C<body> (or C<message> or C<parts>),
and the filename refers to a readable file, then the following parameters
will be determined automatically: C<body>, C<modified>, C<read>, C<size>.

The rest of the less important parameters are just shortcuts for standard
MIME headers. There is no support beyond that for any of them.

=back

=head1 STRUCTURE

A mail message (or body part) is a hash containing some of the following
entries:

 mbox          - mailbox From_ header
 warn          - parser errors in the form: X-Warning: ...
 headers       - arrayref of mail headers in order of appearance
 header        - hashref by name of arrayrefs of mail headers
 body          - text of singlepart mail message
 mime_type     - mimetype of the mail message or body part
 mime_parts    - arrayref of mail messages (body parts)
 mime_message  - message of a message/rfc822 mail message
 mime_boundary - boundary for a multipart mail message
 mime_preamble - any text before the first multipart boundary
 mime_epilogue - any text after the last multipart boundary
 mime_prev_boundary - saved boundary of message after mail2singlepart
 mime_prev_preamble - saved preamble of message after mail2singlepart
 mime_prev_epilogue - saved epilogue of message after mail2singlepart

Note that I<body>, I<mime_parts> and I<mime_message> are mutually exclusive
and that I<mime_type> only exists when I<mime_parts> or I<mime_message> exist.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Parsing example: Repair mailbox files

 formail(sub { <> }, sub { print mail2str(shift) });

Building example: A mail message with attachments

 print mail2str(newmail(
  To => 'you@there.com', From => 'me@here.com', Subject => 'test',
  parts => [
    newmail(body => "hi\n"),
    newmail(body => $png, type => 'image/png', filename => 'hi.png'),
    newmail(message => newmail(qw(To to@you From from@me body hi")))
 ]));

=head1 CAVEAT

The I<header()> and I<headers()> functions automatically decode RFC2047
encoded headers. This is an attempt to satisfy the following requirement in
RFC2047:

 The program must be able to display the unencoded text if the
 character set is "US-ASCII".  For the ISO-8859-* character sets,
 the mail reading program must at least be able to display the
 characters which are also in the ASCII set.

Rather than discarding C<iso-8859-*> characters that are not also
C<us-ascii>, I<header()> and I<headers()> decode them to "characters"
(unicode codeponts) in perl's internal string format. This is arguably more
useful, but knowledge of the original character set is lost. Hopefully, that
isn't important. But actually "displaying" these characters will require the
client application to encode the headers appropriately for the local system.

The original, encoded headers can be accessed directly via
C<$mail-E<gt>{headers}> which is a reference to an array of raw encoded
headers.

=head1 SEE ALSO

RFC2822, RFC2045, RFC2046, RFC2047, RFC2231, RFC2183 (also RFC3282, RFC3066,
RFC2424, RFC2557, RFC2110, RFC3297, RFC2912, RFC2533, RFC1864, RFC2387,
RFC2912, RFC2533, RFC2387, RFC2076).

The mailbox format used is the mboxrd format described in
C<http://www.qmail.org/man/man5/mbox.html>.

=head1 AUTHOR

20230508 raf <raf@raf.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2005-2007, 2023 raf <raf@raf.org>

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut

# vi:set ts=4 sw=4:
