
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OIDC::Client::Config - Configuration Documentation

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These configuration entries apply to all framework plugins using
the L<OIDC-Client|https://metacpan.org/dist/OIDC-Client> distribution.

For direct use with the L<OIDC::Client> module, all entries beginning
with C<provider."provider".> apply, but this prefix must be removed from
the configuration entry names.

=head1 ENTRIES

=head2 default_provider

Defines the provider name to use by the framework plugin when no one has
been specified in the call to the C<oidc($provider)> method.

=head2 authentication_error_path

Relative path of the endpoint to which the browser is redirected if an error
is returned by the provider during the callback to the application after
an authentication attempt, if an error occurs when the token is retrieved
in exchange for the code or if an error occurs when verifying the token.

From the redirection endpoint, the error message is present in
C<error_message> flash data.

If this path is not configured, an L<OIDC::Client::Error::Authentication> error
is thrown.

=head2 provider."provider".store_mode

Defines where the tokens are stored for this provider.

Possible values (C<session> by default) :

=over

=item session

Stored data persists between requests until the session expires.

=item stash

Stored data can only be accessed in the current request.
This may be useful for an API which must validate the token
in the C<Authorization> header for each request (Resource Server).

=back

=head2 provider."provider".proxy_detect

If true, detects the proxy server based on environment variables.

=head2 provider."provider".user_agent

Changes the user agent name.

=head2 provider."provider".id

OIDC client ID supplied by your provider. Mandatory

=head2 provider."provider".secret

OIDC client secret supplied by your provider.

If not present, the secret must be defined in the C<OIDC_${provider}_SECRET>
environment variable.

=head2 provider."provider".audience

Specifies the provider for whom the access token is intended.

If this parameter is omitted, the access token returned by the provider is intended
for your OIDC client (useful for making token exchanges).

For an application, it's better to leave this parameter out and make token exchanges
if you need to make API calls to other applications, but it can be useful for a batch
if you know that the API calls will be made to a single application.

=head2 provider."provider".role_prefix

Defines a prefix common to the roles that will be ignored during a comparison test
between a role to be verified and the list of user roles.

For example, with C<MYAPP.> prefix, you cand do :

    my $can_access_app = $auth_user->has_role('USER');

instead of :

    my $can_access_app = $auth_user->has_role('MYAPP.USER');

=head2 provider."provider".well_known_url

Endpoint which allows the library to retrieve the provider's metadata at the time
of instantiation of the OIDC client only.

If it's not defined, the following parameters must be manually specified
when required:

=over

=item issuer

Provider identifier which must correspond exactly to the C<iss> claim of the tokens
received.

=item jwks_url

Endpoint for publishing the keys to be used to verify the signature of a JWT token.

=item authorize_url

Endpoint from which an interaction takes place between the provider and the browser
in order to authenticate the user.

=item token_url

Endpoint on which the backend exchanges an authorization code with a token or refreshes
a token.

=item userinfo_url

Endpoint used to retrieve user information.

=item end_session_url

Endpoint used to clean up the user session on the provider side.

=back

You can also configure the well know URL and _overload_ one or more metadata with
these same configuration entries.

=head2 provider."provider".signin_redirect_path

Relative path of the endpoint used by the provider to redirect the user's browser
to the application once authentication has been completed.

=head2 provider."provider".signin_redirect_uri

Alternative to C<signin_redirect_path>

Absolute path to the endpoint used by the provider to redirect the user's browser
to the application once authentication has been completed.

=head2 provider."provider".scope

String with space separators defining the desired scope of rights of the requested token.

=head2 provider."provider".identity_expires_in

Number of seconds to add to the current time (when the ID token is retrieved) to force
an expiration time. This overrides the expiration time specified in the C<exp> claim,
which is used by default.

The value I<0> means that there is no expiration time for the stored identity
(lifetime of the current session).

=head2 provider."provider".expiration_leeway

Number of seconds of leeway for a token to be considered expired before it actually is.

=head2 provider."provider".decode_jwt

Options to be transferred to the
L<Crypt::JWT::decode_jwt()|https://metacpan.org/pod/Crypt::JWT#decode_jwt>
function used to validate and decode a JWT token.

By default, the transmitted options are :

=over

=item leeway: 60

Clock skew of 1 minute

=back

=head2 provider."provider".claim_mapping

Used to map token claims or user information to an L<OIDC::Client::User> object.

By default, no mapping is used.

=head2 provider."provider".audience_alias

Audience configuration for token exchanges.

Gives an alias to an audience rather than using the technical identifier.

For example :

    <audience_alias other_app_name>
        audience    other-app-audience
    </audience_alias>

=head2 provider."provider".audience_alias.audience

Audience to be used for this audience alias.

=head2 provider."provider".audience_alias.scope

String with space separators defining the desired scope of rights of the requested
exchanged token.

=head2 provider."provider".authorize_endpoint_response_mode

Defines how tokens are sent by the provider.

Can take one of these values:

=over

=item query

Tokens are sent in query parameters.

=item form_post

Tokens are sent in a POST form.

=back

=head2 provider."provider".authorize_endpoint_extra_params

Defines additional parameters to be sent to the provider when the C<authorize> endpoint
is called.

=head2 provider."provider".token_endpoint_grant_type

Defines the C<grant_type> parameter to be sent to the provider when the C<token> endpoint
is called.

Can take one of these values (C<authorization_code> by default) :

=over

=item authorization_code

=item client_credentials

=item password

=back

=head2 provider."provider".token_endpoint_auth_method

Defines the authentication method to be used when calling the C<token> endpoint.

Can take one of these values (C<post> by default) :

=over

=item post

The client id and secret are sent in the POST body.

=item basic

The client id and the secret are sent in an C<Authorization> header.

=back

=head2 provider."provider".username

For a grant_type C<password>, specifies the technical account to be used.

=head2 provider."provider".password

For a grant_type C<password>, specifies the technical account password to be used.

=head2 provider."provider".logout_redirect_path

Relative path of the endpoint used by the provider to redirect the user's browser
to the application once the session has been cleaned up on the provider side.

=head2 provider."provider".post_logout_redirect_uri

Alternative to C<logout_redirect_path>

Absolute path to the endpoint used by the provider to redirect the user's browser
to the application once the session has been cleaned up on the provider side.

=head2 provider."provider".logout_with_id_token

Specifies whether the token id should be sent to the provider when the C<end_session>
endpoint is called.

True by default

=head2 provider."provider".logout_extra_params

Defines additional parameters to be sent to the provider when the C<end_session>
endpoint is called.

=head2 provider."provider".mocked_identity

For local use only, bypasses the authentication flow by directly defining
a mocked object representing an L<OIDC::Client::Identity> object.

Example:

    <mocked_identity>
        subject     DOEJ
        token       abcd1234
        <claims>
            sub         DOEJ
            lastName    Doe
            firstName   John
            email       john.doe@gmail.com
            roles       MYAPP.ROLE1
            roles       MYAPP.ROLE2
        </claims>
    </mocked_identity>

=head2 provider."provider".mocked_access_token

For local use only, allows the verification of a token to be bypassed by directly
defining a mocked object representing an L<OIDC::Client::AccessToken> object.
Also used when retrieving an L<OIDC::Client::AccessToken> object from the store.

Example:

    <mocked_access_token>
        token       abcd1234
        scopes      scope1
        scopes      scope2
    </mocked_access_token>

=head2 provider."provider".mocked_userinfo

For local use only, allows you to directly define a mocked object representing userinfo.

Example:

    <mocked_userinfo>
        sub         DOEJ
        lastName    Doe
        firstName   John
        email       john.doe@gmail.com
        roles       MYAPP.ROLE1
        roles       MYAPP.ROLE2
    </mocked_userinfo>
