=head2 config

This module contains the code for reading and parsing configuration
directives and calling the appropriate module callback hooks.  Nearly all
News::Gateway programs will make use of this module.

B<WARNING>: Information in configuration directives is B<trusted> by
modules, and modules may go so far as to eval things from configuration
directives as Perl code.  This means that anyone who has access to the
configuration directives read by this module has as much control over what
a program does as someone who can edit the source.  Any necessary sanity
or security checking on the content of configuration directives must be
done B<before> they are passed off to modules, and C<config_file()> does
no such checking.

=over 4

=item config (DIRECTIVE, ARGUMENT [, ARGUMENT ...])

Calls the registered module callbacks for all modules who have expressed
an interest in C<DIRECTIVE>.  This bypasses any parsing, and the arguments
are given to the callbacks exactly as passed in.  C<DIRECTIVE> is
case-insensitive.

=item config_file (FILE | HANDLE)

Reads in configuration directives from the supplied file name or file
handle (which can be either an object reference or a reference to a
typeglob) until end of file is reached.

Blank lines and lines beginning with a C<#> are ignored.  All other lines
are parsed into a directive (the first whitespace-separated word) and some
number of arguments, and then the parse results are passed along to the
module which has registered interest in that directive.  If an argument
contains embedded whitespace, it can be enclosed in double quotes.  A
backslash will escape the next character, whatever it is.  A line is
considered to be continued on the next line if it ends in a backslash, and
if the line continuation occurs inside double quotes, a literal newline
will be part of the string.

For example, the following configuration directive tells the C<headers>
module to add a new header named X-Comment with the content "This is a
long comment about this newsgroup":

    header x-comment add \
           "This is a long comment about this newsgroup"

Multiple configuration files can be read by calling C<config_file()>
multiple times.  One handy trick for simple scripts using News::Gateway is
to put the configuration lines at the end of the script after an __END__
and then pass them to News::Gateway with:

    $gateway->config_file (\*DATA);

C<config_file()> should be called before any C<apply()> it is supposed to
affect.

=item config_line (LINE)

Parses and handles a single configuration line, just as if it were read
from a file (in fact, C<config_file()> calls this method for each
non-blank, non-comment line).  This can be used to feed individual
configuration lines to the News::Gateway object without having to give it
a file or file handle.

=item config_parse (LINE)

Parses a configuration file line, returning the results as an array.  This
is the method used by C<config_file()> and C<config_line()> to parse
configuration files.  This probably isn't generally useful.

=back

These methods adds two additional fatal error messages, which may be
passed to C<error()>.

=over 4

=item Parse error in %s

A configuration line was unable to be parsed.  The most likely cause is
unbalanced double quotes.

=item Unknown configuration directive %s

News::Gateway encountered a configuration directive that no module had
expressed interest in.  Chances are you made a typo in your configuration
file or forgot to register a module with C<modules()> that you were
planning on using.

=back
