=head2 headers

This module implements some general header rewriting functions, including
adding, dropping, and renaming headers and replacing header contents.  It
takes one configuration directive:

=over 4

=item header HEADER FUNCTION [ CONTENT ]

Specify an action on the header C<HEADER>.  C<FUNCTION> can be any of the
following:  drop deletes a header, rename renames the original header to
X-Original-HEADER retaining the same value, ifempty adds a header with
content C<CONTENT> if and only if the message doesn't already contain a
header C<HEADER>, replace replaces all existing C<HEADER> headers with one
containing C<CONTENT>, prepend adds C<CONTENT> to the beginning of the
first header C<HEADER> or creates a new header C<HEADER> with content
C<CONTENT> if none already exists, and reject returns an error if
C<HEADER> is present in the incoming message.

C<CONTENT> can contain various special variables:  C<$n> will be replaced
with the name of the running program, C<$v> will be replaced with the
version of News::Gateway, and C<$i> will be replaced with a unique
identifier formed from the current time and the process ID.  C<$$> will be
replaced with C<$>, so to put a literal dollar sign in a header, you
should use C<$$>.

=back

For example, suppose you have a configuration file with the following
directives:

    header organization add     SNAP
    header message-id   rename
    header sender       drop
    header comment      replace $n $v
    header subject      ifempty no subject (thread id $i)

and suppose you have an incoming message with the headers:

    Organization: Restaurant Reviews
    Message-ID: <123142@bar.org>
    Sender: foo@bar.org
    Comment: Hello
    Comment: Hello again

After the headers module runs, the message will have a header of:

    Organization: Restaurant Reviews
    Organization: SNAP
    X-Original-Message-ID: <123142@bar.org>
    Comment: PROGRAM VERSION
    Subject: no subject (thread id ID)

where C<PROGRAM> is the name of the running program (ie, C<$0>),
C<VERSION> is the version of News::Gateway, and C<ID> is a unique
identifier as described above.

This module may fail and call error() with the following message while
reading the configuration directives:

=over 4

=item Unknown header rewrite action %s

A rewrite action was specified that isn't among those that are supported.
This probably indicates a typo.

=back

This module may fail in one way:

=over 4

=item Invalid header %s

A header that was associated with a reject action in a configuration
directive was present in the incoming message.  Note that the header will
be given in all lowercase.

=back

As a side note, if you're constructing a robomoderator for a newsgroup,
dropping or renaming the Path header in incoming messages is highly
recommended.  It turns out that some news servers will add a Path header
with their hostname B<before> remailing the message to a moderator, and if
you keep that Path header when you post, the article will never propagate
back to the site of the original poster.
