=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Set::Relation::V1 -
Bundled original implementation of Set::Relation role

=head1 VERSION

This document describes Set::Relation::V1 version 0.13.2 for Perl.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

See the SYNOPSIS of L<Set::Relation>, which represents this file also.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Set::Relation::V1 provides the original complete implementation of the
Set::Relation and Set::Relation::Mutable roles.  It is their first working
proof of concept or prototype or reference implementation.  Early lessons
learned while making this implementation did subsequently lead to the
creation of L<Set::Relation::V2>, which kept the same interface but
reworked the internals in several large ways to improve execution
performance and other resource efficiencies.  This older version is kept in
parallel to having the newer one, as a baseline for benchmarking the
reworked internals as well as for learning from.

=head2 Matters of Mutability

Now, while a relation value is conceptually immutable, the
Set::Relation::V1 class allows you to mutate a Set::Relation::V1 object
under some circumstances as a convenience to users, in a similar manner to
how you can mutate a Perl Hash or Array by inserting or deleting its
elements.  By default, a newly created Set::Relation::V1 object is mutable,
that is its identity is said to not be frozen; but when you perform certain
operations with one, it will become immutable, gaining a frozen identity,
and this change can not be reversed, though you can clone said object to
get an un-frozen duplicate.

There are 3 main ways to make a Set::Relation::V1 object immutable. The
first is explicitly, by invoking its C<freeze_identity> method.  The second
is implicitly, by invoking its C<which> method I<(this one may be
reconsidered on users' request)>; this also happens to be done indirectly
any time a tuple-representing Hash is given to a Set::Relation routine.
The third is if another Set::Relation::V1 object is constructed that is
given the first object as a tuple attribute value; this was done rather
than cloning the input object under the assumption that most of the time
you wouldn't want to mutate the input object afterwards, for efficiency.

=head2 Matters of Performance

Set::Relation::V1 by itself is strictly an in-memory data structure, same
as Perl's built-in arrays and hashes.  Its design focuses on providing
correct-behaving features in a relatively simple manner.

Performance is made as good as possible, using multiple design techniques,
while not becoming too complicated.  Set::Relation::V1 keeps a variety of
indexes automatically and makes a trade-off of being willing to use more
RAM (by storing multiple copies of data in hashed form, at least 3 copies
total) in order to get better CPU performance.

Loosely speaking, each Set::Relation::V1 object is a Perl hash-ref with one
element per tuple, where the hash value is the tuple itself as a Perl
hash-ref and the key is a unique hash / serialization of the entire deep
value of said tuple.

This basic structure means that fundamental operations of taking a whole
arbitrary tuple and querying whether or not it is in the relation is an
O(1) / constant-time operation, same as testing the existence of a key in a
Perl hash; likewise, inserting a tuple into or deleting a tuple from a
relation is also an O(1) / constant-time operation.

All basic set operations, like relational union or difference, are all O(N)
/ linear-time due to that basic structure alone.  When comparing 2 input
relations for a set operation, only the smaller one needs to be fully (at
the worst) or partially scanned, and the other does not; the scan produces
a list of tuples to search for, and each search for a tuple in the second
relation is O(1).  Similarly, many basic relational operations like
projection and extension are 0(N).  No such operations are in
polynomial-time such as O(N^2); that would simply be unacceptable.

Set::Relation::V1 also automatically generates more indexes to help with
the general cases of relational joins or semijoins where the arguments have
some but not all attributes in common (the common ones only providing the
join criteria).  Without the extra indexes, a generic join would be in
polynomial time since it would have to pair up every tuple of one argument
with every one of another to see if parts of each tuple match.  However,
this is changed to linear time by first creating (or reusing) an index on
each argument that is a hash of just the portion of the tuple attributes
that overlap with the other argument.  Creating each index is also linear
time.  So then using those indexes, doing an ordinary join or semijoin then
has the same performance characteristics as relational union or difference.

Now to be more accurate concerning relational join operations, finding out
what set of tuples in each input match each other is always a linear time
operation like relational intersection (what is actually happening on the
indexes), but producing the result set of tuples is an O(N*M) operation.
Now if the attributes overlapped between both inputs are superkeys of each
input, then producing the result set reduces to linear / O(N) time;
otherwise it is appropriately slower since the then multiple tuples on each
side of a match are then cartesian joined.  If the main operation is a
semijoin, that is always O(N) since we are actually just filtering one
input by the other, not joining them for a result.

Of course, a regular cartesian product, a join between 2 relations having
no attributes in common, can't be helped by an index (and generates none),
and so does have O(N*M) performance all the time.  This can't be helped
since we know that the result will always have a cardinality that is the
multiplication of input relations' cardinalities.

For the various few more complicated operators provided by
Set::Relation::V1, which are conceptually defined in terms of simpler
operators, their performance is generally based on what they are defined in
terms of.

To keep things simple, creation of indexes (besides the single fundemental
one) is strictly automatic and you can not explicitly add or remove an
index on a Set::Relation::V1 object.  Creation is just done the first time
the indexes would be I<used>, so they only happen say if you do a regular
join or such operation.  Once an index is created, it is automatically kept
up to date by any Set::Relation::V1 mutator methods; the design of said
indexes also makes it such that keeping them up to date during tuple
inserts or deletes is also O(1) per index.

To keep things simple, when new Set::Relation::V1 objects are generated
from relational operations, that new object starts out with no indexes
(other than the fundamental), even if conceivably the parent's could be
copied.

The various Set::Relation::V1 operators know about and look for certain
special cases of inputs which allow them to short-circuit the operation.
In some cases they may return certain constant values, or they may just
return one of their input objects directly.  They may also use a cheaper
operation than you requested which for example doesn't involve creating or
using indexes.  For example, if you use C<join> on 2 input relations that
have all the same attributes, it will short circuit to C<intersection>.  Or
for example if you do C<union> and one input relation has zero tuples, it
will simply return the other input object.

Now in the general relational model where relations are immutable, that
makes no semantical difference, but it is important to know if you plan to
mutate the result object of a relational operation, as you might then be
mutating an argument too.  So take appropriate precautions and do
appropriate tests where necessary so that you don't have undesired
side-effects in your program.

Note that due to an aspect of its design, using the Set::Relation-defined
parameter C<$allow_dup_tuples> on any applicable method of
C<Set::Relation::V1> will have no effect since uniqueness comparisons for
tuples are always done eagerly on storage and there is no mechanism to have
even partial multiset semantics for performance.

I<Note from 2016 May 3:  While the hashing-based algorithm
Set::Relation::V1 (and V2) uses internally to make relational operations
perform in O(N)/O(1) rather than O(N*M) was invented by its author in 2009
for this purpose, in retrospect it turns out that the algorithm had prior
art and an industry standard name, that being "hash join".>

=head1 INTERFACE

Set::Relation::V1 composes the Set::Relation::Mutable role declared in the
L<Set::Relation> file, which in turn composes the Set::Relation role.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<This documentation is pending.>

=head1 CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENT

I<This documentation is pending.>

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

This file requires any version of Perl 5.x.y that is at least 5.8.0.

It also requires these Perl packages that are available both bundled with
Perl 5.8.0+ and on CPAN: L<Carp-ver(1.01..*)|Carp>.

It also requires these Perl packages that are available both bundled with
Perl 5.8.1+ and on CPAN: L<Scalar::Util-ver(1.13..*)|Scalar::Util>.

It also requires these Perl packages that are available both bundled with
Perl 5.26.0+ and on CPAN: L<List::Util-ver(1.4602..*)|List::Util>.

=head1 INCOMPATIBILITIES

None reported.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Go to L<Set::Relation> for the majority of both distribution-internal
and external references.

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

I<This documentation is pending.>

=head1 AUTHOR

Darren Duncan (C<darren@DarrenDuncan.net>)

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Set::Relation is Copyright © 2006-2019, Muldis Data Systems, Inc.

See the LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT of L<Set::Relation> for details.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS in L<Set::Relation> apply to this file too.

=cut
