=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Set::Relation::V2 -
Bundled second implementation of Set::Relation role

=head1 VERSION

This document describes Set::Relation::V2 version 0.13.2 for Perl.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

See the SYNOPSIS of L<Set::Relation>, which represents this file also.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Set::Relation::V2 provides the second complete implementation of the
Set::Relation role, following L<Set::Relation::V1>, and it does not
implement the Set::Relation::Mutable role.  This newer version is the one
you should be using in practice, rather than the older one, since it should
have better performance.

There are 2 main differences that Set::Relation::V2 has from
Set::Relation::V1.  The first is that V2 provides immutable objects while
V1 provides mutable objects.  The second is that V2 is lazy and will defer
any tests for duplicate tuples as late as possible, while V1 is eager and
will test for duplicate tuples as early as possible; V2 will also respect
true C<$allow_dup_tuples> arguments, while V1 will ignore them.  Besides
those 2 matters and their associated large differences in performance
profiles, V2 is essentially the same as V1, including that relation tuples
are internally represented by Perl Hashes.

=head1 INTERFACE

Set::Relation::V2 composes the Set::Relation role declared in the
L<Set::Relation> file.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<This documentation is pending.>

=head1 CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENT

I<This documentation is pending.>

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

This file requires any version of Perl 5.x.y that is at least 5.8.0.

It also requires these Perl packages that are available both bundled with
Perl 5.8.0+ and on CPAN: L<Carp-ver(1.01..*)|Carp>.

It also requires these Perl packages that are available both bundled with
Perl 5.8.1+ and on CPAN: L<Scalar::Util-ver(1.13..*)|Scalar::Util>.

It also requires these Perl packages that are available both bundled with
Perl 5.26.0+ and on CPAN: L<List::Util-ver(1.4602..*)|List::Util>.

=head1 INCOMPATIBILITIES

None reported.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Go to L<Set::Relation> for the majority of both distribution-internal
and external references.

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

I<This documentation is pending.>

=head1 AUTHOR

Darren Duncan (C<darren@DarrenDuncan.net>)

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Set::Relation is Copyright © 2006-2019, Muldis Data Systems, Inc.

See the LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT of L<Set::Relation> for details.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS in L<Set::Relation> apply to this file too.

=cut
