=pod

=head1 NAME

App::runscript - Module that implements the runscript utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  runscript [ -V | -h ]

  runscript <perl application> <arguments passed to the perl application>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module assumes that you have deployed a "perl application" locally using
the L<local::lib/Other-bootstrapping-options> procedure.  Usually you are able
to execute the application only because the PERL5LIB environment variable was
amended. This amendment is needed so that the application is able to locate the
libraries it depends on. If the application does not find its dependencies it
will fail with the message

  Can't locate ... in @INC (@INC contains: ...)

The C<runscript> utility helps you to avoid the PERL5LIB amendment. It has the
following processing steps:

=over 4

=item 1.

It finds out the absolute path of a given perl application. If the application
is in the PATH you may pass its basename to C<runscript>.

=item 2.

It takes the dirname of the absolute path and removes the I<bin/> subdirectory.
The result is the "install base".

=item 3.

It adds the directory I<lib/perl5/> to the install base.

=item 4.

It prepends the final library path to L<@INC|perlvar/"@INC"> before executing
the application.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

L<App::rbinperl>

=item *

L<App::rlibperl>

=item *

L<App::local::lib::helper>

=item *

L<lib::relative>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Sven Willenbuecher <sven.willenbuecher@gmx.de>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2024 by Sven Willenbuecher.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same
terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
