=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mail::Server::IMAP4::Fetch - message info for IMAP protocol speed-up

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $imap = Mail::Server::IMAP4::Fetch->new($msg);
 print $imap->fetchBody(1);   # for FETCH BODYSTRUCTURE
 print $imap->fetchBody;      # for FETCH BODY
 print $imap->fetchEnvelope;  # for FETCH ENVELOPE
 print $imap->fetchSize;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Create a new object hierarchy, which contains information to capture
the most important details about the message.  The object can be used
to speed-up IMAP-server implementations, as L<Mail::Box::Netzwert>.

The object used here is a simplified representation of a
L<Mail::Box::Message|Mail::Box::Message> object.  It does not maintain headers and does
not refer to the folder.  It only works with messages stored in a file.
Therefore, this object can be frozen by L<Storable> if you want to.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Mail::Server::IMAP4::Fetch-E<gt>B<new>( <$message|$part>, %options )

 -Option      --Default
  md5checksums  0

=over 2

=item md5checksums => BOOLEAN

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<bodyLocation>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<headLocation>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<partLocation>()

=back

=head2 IMAP Commands

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fetchBody>($extended)

Returns one string, representing the message's structure as defined by
the IMAP protocol.  The boolean argument indicates whether you like to
have the $extended information, as the imap command 'FETCH BODYSTRUCTURE'
defines or the limited information of 'FETCH BODY'.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fetchEnvelope>()

Returns a string representation of some header information.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fetchSize>()

Returns the size of the message body.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<part>( [$partnr] )

The partnummer is a list of dot-separated positive integers, numbering
(nested) parts in multi-part message bodies.  By default, the info of
the main message is returned.

example: 

 my $partinfo = $msg->info->part('1.2.1');
 print $msg->info->part('3.3')->fetchBody;

=item $obj-E<gt>B<printStructure>( [<$fh|undef>, [$number]] )

Print the structure of the fetch data to the specified $fh or the
selected filehandle.  When explicitly C<undef> is specified as handle,
then the output will be returned as string.  
Only a limited set of the information is displayed.

example: 

 my $imap = ...;
 $imap->printStructure(\*OUTPUT);
 $imap->printStructure;
 my $struct = $imap->printStructure(undef);

=back

=head2 Internals

=head1 DETAILS

See

=over 4

=item RFC2060: "Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP4v1" section 7.4.2

=item RFC2045: "MIME Part One: Format of Internet Message Bodies".

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box-IMAP4 distribution version 3.003,
built on March 04, 2018. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2018 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

