=head1 NAME

WWW::FetchStory - Fetch a story from a fiction website

=head1 DESCRIPTION

WWW::FetchStory is a perl module, with an associated script, 'fetch_story',
which fetches a story from a fiction website, intelligently dealing with the
content from various different fiction websites such as fanfiction.net; it
strips the extras frtom the HTML (such as navbars and javascript) and saves it
so that all you get is the story text and its formatting.  If a story is
deduced to be a multi-chapter story, all chapters of the story are downloaded,
and saved to separate files.

=head2 Fetcher Plugins

In order to tidy the HTML and parse the pages for data about the story,
site-specific "Fetcher" plugins have been written for various sites
such as fanfiction.net, LiveJournal and others.
These plugins can scrape meta-information about the story from the
given page, including the URLs of all the chapters of a multi-chapter story.

Of course, if the site in question alters its page format, then the
Fetcher for that site will break.

=head1 INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

    perl Build.PL
    ./Build
    ./Build test
    ./Build install

Or, if you're on a platform (like DOS or Windows) that doesn't like the
"./" notation, you can do this:

   perl Build.PL
   perl Build
   perl Build test
   perl Build install

In order to install somewhere other than the default, such as
in a directory under your home directory, like "/home/fred/perl"
go

   perl Build.PL --install_base /home/fred/perl

as the first step instead.

This will install the files underneath /home/fred/perl.

You will then need to make sure that you alter the PERL5LIB variable to
find the modules, and the PATH variable to find the script.

Therefore you will need to change:
your path, to include /home/fred/perl/script (where the script will be)

	PATH=/home/fred/perl/script:${PATH}

the PERL5LIB variable to add /home/fred/perl/lib

	PERL5LIB=/home/fred/perl/lib:${PERL5LIB}

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to the author.

=head1 AUTHOR

	Kathryn Andersen RUBYKAT
	http://www.katspace.org

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (c) 2010-2012 by Kathryn Andersen

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
