=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

SDL2::HapticCustom - A structure containing a template for a Custom effect

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use SDL2 qw[:all];
    # TODO: I need to whip up a quick example

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A SDL2::HapticCustom is exclusively for the C<SDL_HAPTIC_CUSTOM> effect.

A custom force feedback effect is much like a periodic effect, where the
application can define its exact shape.  You will have to allocate the data
yourself.  Data should consist of channels * samples Uint16 samples.

If channels is one, the effect is rotated using the defined direction.
Otherwise it uses the samples in data for the different axes.

=head1 Fields

=over

=item C<type> - C<SDL_HAPTIC_CUSTOM>

=item C<direction> - Direction of the effect

=item C<length> - Duration of the effect

=item C<delay> - Delay before starting the effect

=item C<button> - Button that triggers the effect

=item C<interval> - How soon it can be triggered again after button

=item C<channels> - Axes to use, minimum of one

=item C<period> - Sample periods

=item C<samples> - Amount of samples

=item C<data> - Should contain C<channels*samples> items

=item C<attack_length> - Duration of the attack

=item C<attack_level> - Level at the start of the attack

=item C<fade_length> - Duration of the fade

=item C<fade_level> - Level at the end of the fade

=back

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms found in the Artistic License 2. Other copyrights, terms, and
conditions may apply to data transmitted through this module.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=begin stopwords


=end stopwords

=cut
