# vim: ts=4:sw=4:et:ai:sts=4
#
# KGB - an IRC bot helping collaboration
# Copyright © 2012, 2013 Damyan Ivanov
#
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
# the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
# Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
# version.
#
# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
# ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
# FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
# details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
# this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
# Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.

=head1 NAME

kgb.conf -- KGB bot configuration file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

F<kgb.conf> is the main configuration file of the KGB bot. Its location is in
F</etc/kgb-bot/> unless changed with the B<--conf> command line option. See
L<kgb-bot(1)>.

The file format is YAML. Elaborate example configuration is at the end of this
document.

=head1 Settings

=head2 soap

A map with the following possible keys:

=over

=item B<server_addr>

IP address to listen to. Defaults to C<127.0.0.1>.

For making KGB bot listen on all addresses, set the value to
C<0.0.0.0>.

=item B<server_port>

Port to listen to.

=item B<service_name>

SOAP service name. Defaults to C<KGB>.

=back

=head2 pid_dir

Directory to store PID file to. Defaults to F</var/run/kgb-bot/>.

=head2 include

Path to file with additional configuration. May be a path to a directory, in
which case all files in it ending with C<.conf> are loaded, in alphabetical
order.

=head2 min_protocol_version

Minimum version of the protocol that will be supported by the server. Defaults
to C<1>. Protocol version 0 has no authentication.

=head2 queue_limit

When messages are sent to IRC, there is certain rate limitting, which may
prevent the message to be sent right away. In this case messages are enqueued,
and this parameter configures the size of the queue. When the queue is full
client requests are rejected.

=head2 repositories

A map with keys project names and values maps with project details:

=over

=item password

Password used for authenticating all requests from this project.

=item private

If true, disables commit announces to 'broadcast' IRC channels.

=back

=head2 networks

A map with keys network names and values map of network configuration,
containing the following items:

=over

=item server

IP address/hostname of the IRC server to connect to.

=item use_ssl

Whether to use SSL when connecting to the IRC server. Defaults to C<1>.

=item port

Port number to connect to.

Defaults to C<6697> when B<use_ssl> is true and C<6667> otherwise.

=item nick

Bot's nick on the network.

=item ircname

The full name of the bot on the network.

=item username

The username presented to the network.

=item password

A password for the network.

=item nickserv_password

A password for Nick server identification.

=item flood

If defined to a true value, the built-in rate-limitting feature of the IRC
component will be turned off. B<WARNING>: this may cause the bot to be kicked
off the IRC network. Use only when you control both the bot and the IRC network
(e.g. when testing).

=back

=head2 channels

A list of channels. Each element is a map and represents the channel's
configuration:

=over

=item name

Channel name, e.g. C<#commits>. B<Mandatory>.

=item network

Network name, as described in the B<networks> map. B<Mandatory>.

=item secret

The secret key used to join the channel, if any.

=item broadcast

Enables broadcasting all commit notifications to this channel.

=item repos

A list of project names, as described in the B<repositories> map. Mandatory
unless broadcast is enabled.

=item smart_answers

Each channel can contain separate list of smart answers, see below.

=back

=head2 smart_answers

A list of strings to be used as replies when the bot is addressed on IRC.

=head2 smart_answers_polygen

If set to a true value, L<polygen(1)> will be used to generate replies when the
bot is addressed on IRC.

=head2 debug

Enables logging of additional diagnostic information.

=head2 admins

A list of IRC masks, used to determine if a given IRC nick is bot
administrator. Note that currently these nicks have no additional power.

=head2 colors

A map of colors to be used when painting commit messages. The following keys
are recognized:

=over

=item revision

Commit ID. Default: none.

=item path

Changed path. Default: teal.

Depending on the action performed to the path, additional coloring is made:

=over

=item addition

Used for added paths. Default: green.

=item modification

Used for modified paths. Default: teal.

=item deletion

Used for deleted paths. Default: bold red.

=item replacement

Used for replaced paths (a Subversion concept). Default: brown.

=item prop_change

Used for paths with changed properties (a Subversion concept), combined with
other colors depending on the action -- addition, modification or replacement.
Default: underline.

=back

=item author

Commit author. Default: green.

=item branch

Commit branch. Default: brown.

=item module

Project module. Default: purple.

=item web

URL to commit information. Default: silver.

=item separator

The separator before the commit log. Default: none.

=back

=head2 webhook

A map for enabling GitLab webook support. Possible keys:

=over

=item enabled

Enable webhhok support by setting this to 1.

=item allowed_networks

A list of allowed IP networks. Required.

=back

=head2 short_url_service I<name>

The name of a WWW::Shorten module to use for URL-shortening. The leading
C<WWW::Shorten::> part must be omitted.

Default: none

Example: Debli

=head1 EXAMPLE CONFGURATION

 # vim: filetype=yaml
 ---
 soap:
   server_addr: 127.0.0.1
   server_port: 9999
   service_name: KGB
 queue_limit: 150
 log_file: "/var/log/kgb-bot.log"
 include: "/etc/kgb-bot/kgb.conf.d"
 repositories:
   # just a name to identify it
   foo:
     # needs to be the same on the client
     password: supersecret
     # private repositories aren't announced to broadcast channels
     # private: yes
 # Some witty answer for people that talk to the bot
 #smart_answers:
 #  - "I won't speak with you!"
 #  - "Do not disturb!"
 #  - "Leave me alone, I am buzy!"
 # Admins are allowed some special !commands (currently only !version)
 #admins:
 #  - some!irc@mask
 #  - some!other@host
 networks:
   freenode:
     nick: KGB
     ircname: KGB bot
     username: kgb
     password: ~
     nickserv_password: ~
     server: irc.freenode.net
     port: 6667
 channels:
 # a broadcast channel
   - name: '#commits'
     network: freenode
     broadcast: yes
 # a channel, tied to one or several repositories
   - name: '#foo'
     network: freenode
     repos:
       - foo
     # Can also be set per-channel
     #smart_answers:
     #  - "I'm in ur channel, watching ur commits!"
     #  - "I am not listening"
     #  - "Shut up! I am buzy watching you."
 pid_dir: /var/run/kgb-bot
 # anything less is rejected
 min_protocol_ver: 1
 # default colors:
 colors:
  repository: bold
  revision: bold
  author: green
  branch: brown
  module: purple
  path: teal
  addition: green
  modification: teal
  deletion: "bold red"
  replacement: reverse
  prop_change: underline
  web: silver
 # you can combine them like "bold red" (ouch!)
 # available colors: black, navy, green, red, brown, purple, orange, yellow,
 #  lime, teal, aqua, blue, fuchsia, gray, silver, white
 # available modifiers: bold underline reverse
 webhook:
  enabled: 1
  allowed_networks:
   - 127.0.0.1
 short_url_service: Debli

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<kgb-bot(1)>, L<kgb-client(1)>

=head1 AUTHOR

=over

=item Damyan Ivanov L<dmn@debian.org>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2012, 2013 Damyan Ivanov

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.

=cut
