
=head1 Usage

  basic [options] inputfile outputfile

=head1 Options

=over

=item -i, --input-file FILENAME

=for positional
=for isa File::Fu::File

Input file name.

=item -o, --output-file FILENAME

=for positional
=for isa File::Fu::File

Output file name.

=item -n, --index N (integer)

=for help frobstration index

Index for frobstration.  This corresponds to the wibble-factor

  correlation of the long-winded explanation endeavor.

=item -c, --config-file FILENAME

Load alternate configuration file.

DEFAULT: 'examples/basic_config.yml'

=item -f, --foo THIS (number)

=for help your favorite $foo value

This sets the value of the foo option.  Your account will be billed
accordingly.

DEFAULT: 20

=item -b, --bar YAY [--bar ...] (number)

One or more bar-razing values.

=item --something "x, y, z"

A string to pass to something.

=item --what-ever, --footprint SIZE (integer)

Shoe size of footprint.  This can be as large or small as you want, but
probably shouldn't be negative and should definitely be specified in
something like inches.

DEFAULT: 7

=item --deal NAME=NUM (integer)

=for help name/value pairs

One or more name/value pairs for dealings.

=item -x, --explode

Self-destruct.

DEFAULT: NO

=item -v, --verbose

Emit extra information. 

=item -q, --quiet, --no-verbose

Emit no extra information.

=item --version

Display version number.

=item -h, --help

=for help show this help message

Show help and options.

=back

=cut

$VERSION = 42.7.9;
use warnings;
use strict;

use Getopt::AsDocumented;
my $o = Getopt::AsDocumented->process(\@ARGV) or exit;
use YAML;
warn YAML::Dump($o), "\n";

die "explode!\n" if($o->explode);
warn "yay!\n" if($o->verbose);
