=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::WSS::KeyInfo - handling WSS key info structures

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # Not for end-users
  my $sig = XML::Compile::WSS::Signature->new(key_info => $config);
  my $ki  = $sig->keyInfo;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The specifications define at least 10 different ways to provide security
keys to the messages.  This module implements the logic to read and write
tokens and keyinfo references to these tokens in the XML message.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item XML::Compile::WSS::KeyInfo-E<gt>B<fromConfig>(HASH|PAIRS)

Take default values to be used with the readers and writers, which
are created by this object.  So, the configuration contains all parameters
to L<builder()|XML::Compile::WSS::KeyInfo/"Handlers">

=item XML::Compile::WSS::KeyInfo-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

End-user should use L<XML::Compile::WSS::Signature::new(key_info)|XML::Compile::WSS::Signature/"Constructors"> to pass
a HASH of %options.  These options do not have accessors (yet).

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<config>()

=back

=head2 Token administration

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addToken>( $token, [$token...] )

=item $obj-E<gt>B<findToken>(%options)

 -Option     --Default
  fingerprint  undef
  name         undef
  uri          undef

=over 2

=item fingerprint => BINARY

=item name => STRING

=item uri => URI

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<tokens>()

=back

=head2 Handlers

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<builder>($wss, %options)

Not for end-users.  Returns a CODE which will be called to produce the
token representation in some output message.

 -Option       --Default
  publish_token  'SECTOKREF_URI'

=over 2

=item publish_token => 'NO'|CONSTANTS|CODE

How to publish the security token.  The C<INCLUDE_BY_REF> constant will
add the token as BinarySecurityToken in the message, plus a keyinfo
structure with a reference to that token.  See L</DETAILS> about the
various choices and additional options they imply.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<getTokens>($wss, %options)

Not for end-users.  Returns a CODE which needs to be called with a parsed
incoming message.

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head2 Supported KeyInfo types

=head3 KeyInfo

On the top level, we have the following options:

  keyinfo_id STRING       an xsd:ID value for the Id attribute (namespaceless)

=head3 KEYNAME

=head3 X509DATA

This key-info type inlines one or more X509 certificates, in base64
encoding.

Additional options:

  x509data_type TYPE      read below, default ASN1DER

When you use the C<X509DATA> method to publish your key, you can specify
the C<x509data_type>

  SERIAL                  issuer name and cert serial number
  SKI                     subject key identifier (subject hash)
  SUBJECT                 subject name
  ASN1DER                  base64 encoded full public certificate
  CRL                     certification revocation list not supported (yet)

As example, you may look at Net::Domain::SMD::Schema, which uses this
key storage model for an enveloped signature.

B<. Example: create X509Data key-info>

  my $sig = XML::Compile::WSS::Signature->new
    ( schema     => $schemas
    , prepare    => 'WRITER'
    , ...
    , key_info   =>
        { publish_token  => 'X509DATA'
        , x509data_type  => 'SERIAL'
        };
    );

B<. Example: X509Data in a message, type=ASN1DER>

  my $sig = XML::Compile::WSS::Signature->new
    ( ...
    , publish_token => 'X509DATA'   # smart use of defaults
    );

  <ds:Signature>
    ...
    <ds:KeyInfo Id="some-key-id">
      <ds:X509Data>
        <ds:X509Certificate>MII...</ds:X509Certificate>
      </ds:X509Data>
    </ds:KeyInfo>
  </ds:Signature>

=head3 SecurityTokenReference

The C<wsse:SecurityTokenReference> structure contains various other
constructs.  They share the following options:

   sectokref_id      the wsu:Id of the SecurityTokenReference
   usage             list of URIs

=head3 SECTOKREF_KEYID

(At least) used in EncryptedKeys structures.  The "ThumbprintSHA1" is the
SHA1 of the fingerprint of an key.

Example:

 <wsse:SecurityTokenReference>
   <wsse:KeyIdentifier
      EncodingType="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-soap-message-security-1.0#Base64Binary"
      ValueType="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/oasis-wss-soap-message-security-1.1#ThumbprintSHA1">+tkVcx0cyPfbKrQtVePbC98Kjc0=</wsse:KeyIdentifier>
   </wsse:SecurityTokenReference>
 </ds:KeyInfo>

Options and defaults:

   keyid_value       WSM11_PRINT_SHA1
   keyid_encoding    WSM10_BASE64
   keyident_id       the wsu:Id of the KeyIdentifier

=head3 SECTOKREF_URI

Creates a KeyInfo structure which refers to the key via an URI.  But, this
will also add the BinarySecurityToken to the Security header, if not yet
present.

Example:

 <ds:KeyInfo Id="KI-1">
   <wsse:SecurityTokenReference wsu:Id="STR-2">
     <wsse:Reference URI="#X509-3"
        ValueType="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-x509-token-profile-1.0#X509v3"/>
   </wsse:SecurityTokenReference>
 </ds:KeyInfo>

 <wsse:Security
   <wsse:BinarySecurityToken wsu:Id="X509-3"
      EncodingType="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-soap-message-security-1.0#Base64Binary"
      ValueType="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-x509-token-profile-1.0#X509v3">
        MIIB..akDNgQ==
   </wsse:BinarySecurityToken>
 </wsse:Security>

Options and defaults:

  sectokref_uri    Relative or absolute URI

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-WSS-Signature distribution version 2.04,
built on June 26, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2012-2025 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the Artistic license.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/artistic.html>

