=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken - Base for WSS Security Tokens

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken is extended by
   XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken::EncrKey
   XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken::X509v3

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # either
  use XML::Compile::WSS::Util qw/XTP10_X509v3/;
  my $token = XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken->new(type => XTP10_X509v3, ...);

  # or
  use XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken::X509v3;
  my $token = XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken::X509v3->new(...);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Supported token types

=over 4

=item * X509v3, see L<XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken::X509v3|XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken::X509v3>

=item * An encrypted key, for instance to be used for hmac-rsa, implemented in L<XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken::EncrKey|XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken::EncrKey>

=back

=head2 Not supporter (yet)

Other token types, found in the documentation, but not (yet) supported:

=over 4

=item * LTPA: Lightweight Third Party Authentication (version 1)

=item * LTPAv2: Lightweight Third Party Authentication version 2

=back

Hire me to implement these!

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken-E<gt>B<fromConfig>($config, %options)

Try to be very flexible.  $config can be a HASH, which could also be
passed to L<new()|XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken/"Constructors"> directly.  But it can also be various kinds of
objects.

 -Option--Default
  type    XTP10_X509v3

=over 2

=item type => CONSTANT

[1.07] the type of the security token.

=back

=item XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option     --Default
  binary       undef
  encoding     WSM10_BASE64
  fingerprint  undef
  id           'my-token'
  type         XTP10_X509v3
  uri          <unique>

=over 2

=item binary => BYTES

=item encoding => WSM10*

=item fingerprint => STRING

STRING format like C<C8:AE:B1:25:  :24:00:7A:82:F2>.  A bit weird that
this gets base64 encoded as well.

=item id => wsu::Id

=item type => TOKENTYPE

=item uri => NAME

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<encoding>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fingerprint>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<id>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<type>()

=back

=head2 Handlers

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<asBinary>()

If implemented, this token can be included as "BinarySecurityToken"

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-WSS-Signature distribution version 2.04,
built on June 26, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2012-2025 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the Artistic license.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/artistic.html>

