=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::WSS::SignedInfo - administrating a SignedInfo block

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # Not for end-users
  my $sig = XML::Compile::WSS::Signature->new(signedinfo => HASH);
  my $si  = $sig->signedinfo;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The administration and reading/writing for the SignedInfo structure.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item XML::Compile::WSS::SignedInfo-E<gt>B<fromConfig>(HASH|PAIRS)

All OPTIONS for L<new()|XML::Compile::WSS::SignedInfo/"Constructors">

=item XML::Compile::WSS::SignedInfo-E<gt>B<new>($wss, %options)

 -Option       --Default
  c14n           <created internally>
  canon_method   C14N_EXC_NO_COMM
  digest_method  DSIG_SHA1
  prefix_list    [ds wsu xenc SOAP-ENV]
  wss            <required>

=over 2

=item c14n => L<XML::Compile::C14N|XML::Compile::C14N> object

=item canon_method => CANON

The algorithm to be used for canonicalization of some component.
These constants are pre-defined with nice C<C14N_*> names in
L<XML::Compile::C14N::Util|XML::Compile::C14N::Util>.

=item digest_method => DIGEST

The algorithm used to sign the body digest, when sending.

The digest name is an ugly constant which has a nice C<DSIG_*> alias
defined in L<XML::Compile::WSS::Util|XML::Compile::WSS::Util>.
The digest is implemented via the Digest module, and its plugins.

=item prefix_list => ARRAY

Used for canonicalization.

=item wss => L<XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS> object

Optional when a c14n is provided.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<c14n>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<defaultCanonMethod>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<defaultDigestMethod>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<defaultPrefixList>()

=back

=head2 Handlers

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<builder>($wss, %options)

Not for end-users.  Returns a CODE which will be called to produce the
data for a ds_SignedInfo block.  The %options can overrule the defaults
set by L<new()|XML::Compile::WSS::SignedInfo/"Constructors">

=back

=head3 Digest

=head3 Canonicalization

With "canonicalization" you apply a set of rules to translate an XML
structure into a standardized ("canonical") format.

XML offers freedom on where to put namespace declarations, blanks between
elements, order of attributes, and so on.  However, when you want to
sign an element, meaningless changes do change the result.  Canonical
format enforces a set of rules, and produces bytes.

The "Digital Signature v1" supports c14n.  DSIG version 2 uses c14n2...
which is not yet supported.

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-WSS-Signature distribution version 2.04,
built on June 26, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2012-2025 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the Artistic license.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/artistic.html>

