=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::WSS::Signature - WSS Signatures

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::WSS::Signature
   is a XML::Compile::WSS

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # You may need a few constants
 use XML::Compile::WSS::Util  qw/:dsig/;
 use XML::Compile::C14N::Util qw/:c14n/;

 # This modules van be used "stand-alone" ...
 my $schema = XML::Compile::Cache->new(...);
 my $sig    = XML::Compile::WSS::Signature->new
   (sign_method => DSIG_RSA_SHA1, ...);

 # ... or as SOAP slave (strict order of object creation!)
 my $wss    = XML::Compile::SOAP::WSS->new;
 my $wsdl   = XML::Compile::WSDL11->new($wsdlfn);
 my $sig    = $wss->signature(sign_method => ...);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<WARNING: Only limited real-life experience.>  Many optional
extensions have never been tried.

B<WARNING: RedHat derivates> like RedHat, Fedora, and AlmaLinux recently
actively disable SHA1 support.  You may set their systemwide cryptopolicy
to 'LEGACY', but better use SHA256 or higher.  Defaults of this module
still use SHA1, which might change in the future.

The generic Web Service Security protocol is implemented by the super
class L<XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS>.  This extension implements cypto signatures.

On this moment, there are two versions of this standard:

=over 4

=item * F<http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/REC-xmldsig-core-20020212/>

=item * F<http://www.w3.org/TR/xmldsig-core2/>

=back

One or more elements of a (SOAP) document can be selected to be signed. They
are canonalized (serialized in a well-described way) and then digested
(usually via SHA1).  The digest is put in a C<SignedInfo> component of
the C<Signature> element in the C<Security> header.  When all digests
are in place, the whole SignedInfo structure gets signed.

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head2 Limitations

Many companies use their own selection from a large the pile of standards
for this feature.  Some of the resulting limitations are known by the author:

=over 4

=item * digests

Only digest algorithms which are provided via the Digest module are
supported for the elements to be signed.  (But that's quite a lot)

=item * signatures

Only a limited subset of signing (algorithm, hash) combinations are
supported.  Lower on this page, you find details about each of the
provided signing implementations.

=back

=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"METHODS">.
 
=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"Constructors">.
 
=over 4

=item XML::Compile::WSS::Signature-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

The %options you provide here, will will passed to various objects
which are created automatially.  But you may also give pre-instantiated
objects, for instance when you decide to use your own extension on a
certain spot.

 -Option      --Defined in       --Default
  checker                          undef
  key_info                         {}
  prepare       XML::Compile::WSS  'ALL'
  remote_token                     undef
  schema        XML::Compile::WSS  undef
  sign_types                       <required>
  signed_info                      {}
  signer                           DSIG_RSA_SHA1
  token                            <depends on sign_method>
  version       XML::Compile::WSS  undef
  wss_version   XML::Compile::WSS  '1.1'

=over 2

=item checker => OBJECT|HASH|TYPE

The signer object with server information, anything what is accepted by
L<XML::Compile::WSS::Sign::fromConfig()|XML::Compile::WSS::Sign/"Constructors">.  When provided, we do not need
to collect the information from the incoming messages.

=item key_info => HASH

Read L<XML::Compile::WSS::KeyInfo::new()|XML::Compile::WSS::KeyInfo/"Constructors">

=item prepare => 'READER'|'WRITER'|'ALL'|'NONE'

=item remote_token => OBJECT|HASH|FILENAME

To defend against man-in-the-middle attacks, you need to specify the
server's public key.  When specified, that key will be used to verify
the signature, not the one listed in the XML response.

Only when this C<remote_token> is specified, we will require the
signature.  Otherwise, the check of the signature will only be performed
when a Signature is available in the Security header.

=item schema => an L<XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache> object

=item sign_types => ARRAY

Specify the types of elements which need to be signed.  If you
have more elements of the same type, they will all get signed.

=item signed_info => HASH

Settings for the SignedInfo structure.
Read L<XML::Compile::WSS::SignedInfo::new()|XML::Compile::WSS::SignedInfo/"Constructors">

=item signer => OBJECT|HASH|TYPE

The client-side signer object, anything what is accepted by
L<XML::Compile::WSS::Sign::fromConfig()|XML::Compile::WSS::Sign/"Constructors">.

=item token => OBJECT|HASH|FILENAME

The token, anything which is accepted by
L<XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken::fromConfig()|XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken/"Constructors">.  This contains at least the
public information.

=item version => STRING

=item wss_version => '1.1'|MODULE

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

Extends L<"Attributes" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"Attributes">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<keyInfo>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schema>()

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Attributes">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<signedInfo>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<signer>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<wssVersion>()

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Attributes">

=back

=head3 Security Tokens

To prove the signature, there usually is some security token.  This token
may (or may not) be included in the SOAP message itself.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<remoteToken>()

Returns the security token of the server, which is an
L<XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken|XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken> object. Either, this token is provided
by L<new(remote_token)|XML::Compile::WSS::Signature/"Constructors">, to taken from the first message.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<token>()

Returns the security token, which is an L<XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken|XML::Compile::WSS::SecToken> object.

=back

=head2 Apply

Extends L<"Apply" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"Apply">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<check>($security)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Apply">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<create>($doc, $security, $data)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Apply">

=back

=head2 Helpers

Extends L<"Helpers" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"Helpers">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<dateTime>($time|$string|HASH)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Helpers">

=back

=head2 Internals

Extends L<"Internals" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"Internals">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<loadSchemas>($schema, $version)

=item XML::Compile::WSS::Signature-E<gt>B<loadSchemas>($schema, $version)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Internals">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<writerHookWsuId>($type)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Internals">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

Extends L<"DETAILS" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"DETAILS">.
 
=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-WSS-Signature distribution version 2.04,
built on June 26, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2012-2025 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the Artistic license.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/artistic.html>

