=pod

=head1 1.3.6 (RELEASE)   22. Jan 2003

   - Fixed unicode problems in make test with Perl 5.8.0. With
     support from Robert.
   - Fixed warning about missing CLOSE method with Perl 5.8.0
     Reported by Rajesh Kumar Mallah.

=head1 1.3.5 (RELEASE)   23. Dec 2002

   - Runs now with Perl 5.8.0. Thanks to Angus Lees who 
     backported the 5.8.0 patches from 2.0.
   - Fixed Path search problem. Reported by Gavin Carr.

=head1 1.3.4 (RELEASE)   5. Dec 2001

   - Added method $r -> Espace for html & url escaping
   - URL escpage # to %23
   - use Content-Length HTTP Header instead of $ENV{CONTENT_LENGTH}
     when running under mod_perl and win32. This fixes a bug
     with POSTed data reported by Lukas Zapletal.
   - Display correct Apache module name in Makefile.PL when
     requesting path for Apache module. Patch from James Lee.
   - New session handling using Apache::SessionX. (This also
     fixes problem with MD5 and Perl 5.6.1)
   - Fixed a bug that cause file-uploads to fail for the first 
     request to a file when running under EmbperlObject. Reported
     by Thoren Johne.
   - Added possibilities to add the session id as argument to any URL,
     instead of using cookies.
   - Added new hash %sdat which holds temporary sessins data.
   - Added options optAddUserSessionToLinks, optAddStatusSessionToLinks
     and optNoSessionCookies to control how the session id is passed.
   - Make sure the HTML::Embperl::Mail generates correct line endings
   - If Perl's STDOUT and/or STDIN are tied to any package, Embperl now
     calls the Perl methods PRINT and READ for doing I/O. This currently
     only works when not running under mod_perl.
   - Embperl can now run under FastCGI. Use embpfastcgi.pl instead of
     embpcgi.pl.
   - Delete unnecessary PerlFixupHandler from httpd.conf.src for make test.
     Reported by David Merberg.      
   - Add undef to %idat for select tag with nothing selected if
     optAllFormdata is set.
   - Cleanup of DBIx::Recordset objects now honors the setting in %CLEANUP.
     Problem reported by Kee Hinckley.
   - Embperl can now use encrypted sourcefiles. See crypto/README for
     details.
   - Embperl can now be installed as Apache and non Apache version on the
     same system. This is neccessary to work on Windows in- and outside of
     Apache.
   - Fixed a linkage problem with symbol embperl_module, first reported
     by GustavKristoffer Ek.
   - error message now always contain a filename.
   - Added optShowBacktrace to enable backtrace of filename in error messages
   - Removed obsolete debug flags dbgDisableCache, dbgWatchScalar,
     dbgEarlyHttpHeader
   - Fixed problem with changing to page directory on win32. Reported by
     Hans de Groot.
   - Fixed problems with mod_perl environement handling with ActiveState Perl 
     on win32.

=head1 1.3.3 (RELEASE)   6. Juni 2001

   - fixes problem with cleanup and Perl 5.6.0+ which broke
     session management. Spotted by Lukas Zapletal and Andy Lim.
   - Improved Makefile.PL to catche more setup situation on
     Win 32.
   - Make $r -> Error settable to be able to reset Embperl's
     internal error flag.     
   - workaround for $r -> chdir_file not working correctly inside
     of Apache::Registry with ActiveState Perl, which caused
     make test to fail.
   - fixed SIGSEGVs that could occur on rare situations when
     multiple file not found errors are reported.
   - fixed problem with wrong setup of Content-Length header
     when running in CGI mode, with escmode = 0. Spotted by
     Edwin Ramirez.
   - fixed problem with nested dynamic tables and Execute.
   - added correct errror message for rcNotCompiledForModPerl.
     Spotted by Scott Chapman.

=head1 1.3.2 (RELEASE)   16 May. 2001 

   - Emulate the syntax => Text parameter of Embperl 2.0, which allows 
     to include pure text files any without interpretation. Requested
     by Kee Hinckley.
   - Fixed problem with corrupted @ISA, that had occured when a page was
     first requested without EmbperlObject and then with EmbperlObject.
   - Catch exceptions inside of Embperl.pm and correctly cleanup the
     request. This avoids problems in further request in case anything
     was really going wrong.
   - If the base template in an EmbperlObject request is requested
     directly the Execute ('*') does nothing, to avoid
     endless recursion.
   - Fixed bug in SetSessionCookie which had called undefined method 
     getinitalid.  Spotted by Sun Choi.
   - Removed wrong expire setting from SetSessionCookie, spotted 
     by Michael Stevens.
   - Additions to IntroEmbperlObject.pod by Neil Gunton.
   - ';' is now accepcted as separator for query strings addtionaly
     to the '&' character. Patch from Brent A. Ellingson.
   - ';' is now escaped to %3B when outputed inside a URL.
   - Embperl is now added to the Serversoftware identification when 
     preloaded under mod_perl.
   - adapted make test to Perl 5.6.1 and 5.7.1 so now it passes sucessfully.
   - fixed problem with cleanup in threaded Perl 5.6.1 and higher
   - added pod documentation to embperl.pl. Patch from Angus Lees.
   - %http_headers_out can take now array refs as elements to set multiple
     headers of the same value. Patch from Maxwell Krohn.
   - Non module-documenations (like Intro.pod Faq.pod etc) now gets copied under
     the correct directory and man pages are generated with the correct name
     (e.g. perldoc HTML::Embperl::Intro works now after installation). Based
     on an idea from Angus Lees.
   - Makefile.PL enhancements for Apache/ActiveState binary distribution
   - quote pathnames in Makefile to allow directories like "Program Files".
     Spotted by Lukas Zapletal.
   - Added epocgi.pl which allow use of EmbperlObject as CGI script.
   - Added a dTHR to function CmdVar to make Embperl compile with threaded
     Perl 5.005. Patch from Michael George III.
   - EMBPERL_SESSION_ARGS can now accept pathes with spaces inside by quoteing
     an argument e.g. PerlSetEnv EMBPERL_SESSION_ARGS "'Directory=/Session Files/'".
     Spotted by Lukas Zapletal.
   - Perl search path (@INC) in make test is set to abosulte paths to be independend
     of directory changes that Apache might issue. Spotted by Randy Korbes.


=head1 1.3.1 (RELEASE)   13 Feb. 2001

   - Added new Introduction to EmbperlObject written by
     Neil Gunton. See perldoc IntroEmbperlObject
   - Added new Tips and Tricks pod written by
     Neil Gunton. See perldoc TipsAndTricks. Anybody is invited
     to send me their own Tips and Tricks!
   - Added object and isa parameters to Execute, which allows to get an
     object reference for a certain file and set the Perl inherence
     hierachive. Ideas from Neil Gunton and Angus Lees.
   - Corrected a problem that leads to very strange errors when an
     Embperl sub is called from an in memory source (that is passed
     via the Execute input parameter). Spotted by Neil Gunton.
   - Make EmbperlObject work better with relative paths and drive letters
     on Windows. Based on a patch from Freddy Vulto.
   - Fixed a problem with the cache key, which could cause that the same
     file is compiled within different packages.
   - Fixed a problem that Embperl are in a wired state after an file upload
     has been interrupted. Spotted by Dirk Lutzebaeck.
   - Fixed a problem set @ISA is not correctly setup in case a file is
     compiled in the same package as the base file of EmbperlObject.
     Spotted by Neil Gunton.
   - Fixed problem with including ../foo.html in EmbperlObject. Spotted
     by Neil Gunton.
   - Added warning if @ISA is not correctly setup/corrupted.
   - Fixed a SIGSEGV that occurs when an reference to undef is returned
     from a [+ +] inside a URL.
   - Added warning to Makefile.PL, if File::Spec 0.82 isn't installed, which is
     required by EmbperlObject.
   - Fixed "use of undefined value" warning in make test      

=head1 1.3.0 (RELEASE)   4 Dec. 2000

   - Corrected a wrong test, that let make test fail. Spotted by Eddie Lau.
   - Added a Line Feed at the end of epnames.h, which has caused some problems
     with on old SunOS compiler. Spotted by Roman Maeder.
   - Fixed a problem that Perl generated an error when $req_rec and [$ var $] was
     used. Spotted by Michael Stevens.

=head1 1.3b7 (BETA)   15. Nov 2000

   - Fixed problem that the call to close triggers error in Session.pm when using 
     Store::File. Spotted by Alvar Freude.
   - Fixed problem that GetSession doesn't return a value for new session.
     Spotted by Angus Lees.
   - Added new function SetSessionCookie, which can be used to set the session cookie
     header in case you use Embperl session management, but don't use a 
     Embperl page in that request. Suggested by Alex Schmelkin.
   - Fixed problem that DeleteSession does not work outside the base template, when
     used with EmbperlObject. Spotted by Angus Lees.
   - Fixed problem when use multiple nested ../foo.htm inside EmbperlObject.
     Spotted by Neil Gunton.
   - Included patch from Angus Lees to ease building on debian.
   - make test now works again with BEN-SSL httpsd. With help from Neil Gunton.
   - Included grammaticaly updated Embperl.pod. Many thanks to Ilia Lobsanov
     for doing the proof reading. 
   - removed dbgDisableCache to avoid problems with this "feature" that isn't working
     anymore for a long time.
   - Added validaten for session cookie. If Apache::Session 1.53+ is installed
     it uses the validate method from Apache::Session::Generate::xxx. If a invalid
     session id is found a new one is generated. Spotted by Angus Lees.
   - If a not existing session id is received, Embperl generates now a new one.
   - Enhancements of Cookie resending logic. To make sure cookies are send when
     neccessary, but not more often. (Handles now write to session data, after
     a delete in the same request correctly).
   - Added more tests for Sessionhandling.
   - Fixed a bug that Content-Lenght was 2 to much, when escmode was set to zero.
     Spotted by Michael Smith.
   - Added patches from Randy Korbes for ActiveState Support. Most tests with
     Embperl under mod_perl nows passes. The few remaining ones that doesn't pass
     seems to be due to problems of mod_perl's enironment handling.
   - Droped support for Apache::Session 0.17. Embperl now support only
     Apache::Session 1.00 and higher.
   - Added new option: optDisableSelectScan, to allow processing of SELECT tags,
     while processing of TABLE tags is disabled. Suggested by Robert.
   - Carridge Returns are only removed for Perl 5.004. This makes using of 
     HERE documents possible on Perl 5.005+, even if the documents has CRLF
     as lineendings.

=head1 1.3b6 (BETA)  18. Oct 2000

   - Embperl now runs on ActiveState Perl. (At least in offline mode,
     mod_perl mode seems to still have some problems). With a lot of help
     from Randy Korbes.	
   - Changed EmbperlObject search order:
     * If EMBPERL_OBJECT_STOPDIR is set, this directory is taken as
       the last directory in the normal search path, instead of the
       directory where the base template (EMBPERL_OBJECT_BASE) is found.
     * EMBPERL_OBJECT_ADDPATH is _always_ added to the search path
     * Now Embperl also searches the path for files like
       ../foo.html, or bar/foo.html, which includes a relative path.
   - ../* is now a shortcut for the requested file, but in the
     parent directory (or upper depending on the search path)
   - Added access to Embperl session handling for modules and
     calling scripts (see SetupSession and GetSession)
   - Embperl is now able to output binary data if EMBPERL_ESCMODE
     and/or $escmode is zero. This also include that no CRLF is
     added at the end of the file, if escmode is zero.
   - Added method for deleting session data and cookie
   - Added method for triggering resend of session cookie. 
   - Added Test for pnotes ('EMBPERL_ERRORS')
   - Added hash %CLEANUPFILE. All variables defined into the files given
     in this hash, are also cleanup at the end of the request.
     Patch from Todd Eigenschink.
   - Changed the way the C Requestobject is attached to the Perlobject,
     so it should now also work on 64Bit Processor like Alpha.
     Spotted by Andre Landwehr.
   - Fixed a problem with importing files that contains foreach and
     do until loops, which may caused a syntax error or endless
     loop. Spotted by Steffen Geschke.
   - embpcgi* and embpexec* are now geratated out of *.templ instead
     of editied in place to avoid problems with cvs conflicts
     and lower/uppercase on Win32. Suggest by Jens-Uwe Mager.
   - make test works with Apache that has mod_jserv compiled in
   - Embperl now cache same files with relative path, which are located
     in different directories correctly.

=head1 1.3b5 (BETA)  20. Aug 2000

   - Embperl now supports Apache::Session 1.52. See "Session handling"
     in the docs, how the setup has changed.
   - Fixed a problem with POSTed data, which had got lost for the first,
     request when using EmbperlObject handler. Spotted by
     Kaare Rasmussen.
   - Fixed a typo in HTML::Embperl::Mail, spotted by Robert.
   - changed require to use HTML::Embperl in EmbperlObject to avoid problems
     with dynamic loading. Spotted by Robert.
   - Embperl takes the cookie for session handling from the Apache 
     request record to make it available in earlier phases then the
     content handler. Suggested by Jack Cushman.
   - added entity decoding for value attribute of radio/checkboxes.
     Spotted by Chris Thorman.
   - %fdat is not resetup when already done and formtype is 
     multipart/formdata. Spotted by Michael Slade.
   - Embperl inserts &amp; instead of a signle & inside query strings
     when expaned from array or hash refs.
   - Embperl now also accepts hashref inside a url and expand it
     to a query_string i.e. <a href="foo.html?[+ { a=>1, b=>2 }+]"> will become
     <a href="foo.html?a=1&amp;b=>2">.
   - EMBPERL_COOKIE_EXPIRES now also supports relativ times like: 
     +30s +10m +1h -1d +3M +10y
   - $req_rec -> pnotes ('EMBPERL_ERRORS') could be used to retrieve 
     error message inside a error document
   - make Embperl compile and run with threaded Perl 5.6. With help
     from Jason Bodnar. NOTE: That doesn't mean that Embperl is
     threadsafe!

=head1 1.3b4 (BETA)  17.07.2000

   - New $escmode (or EMBPERL_ESCMODE) to disable the possiblilty
     to turn off escaping with a leading backslash. Adding 4 to
     any escmode will cause Embperl to do no special processing
     on the backslash. This is mainly to avoid problems with
     cross site scripting issuse, where people are able to enter
     aribtary HTML. Spotted by Dirk Lutzebaeck.
   - Characters between 128 and 159 are all HTML escaped now to
     avoid problems with buggy browser, which were reported to
     treat the chars 139 and 141 as < and >.  Spotted by Dirk Lutzebaeck.
   - If a requested file is not found when using EmbperlObject as handler,
     the file given by C<EMBPERL_OBJECT_FALLBACK> is displayed instead. 
     If C<EMBPERL_OBJECT_FALLBACK> isn't set a staus 404, NOT_FOUND is
     returned as usual.
   - "perl Makefile.PL debug" will build debugging information for
     gdb/ms-vc++ into Embperl library.
   - test.pl can take a bunch of new options for debugging Embperl itself.
     See make test TESTARGS="--help".
   - Embperl 1.x and 2.x share now the same Makefile.PL and test.pl
   - Added new debug flag dbgObjectSerach which logs the EmbperlObjects
     work when searching the correct file.
   - If import parameter is given to Execute, Perl code is compiled, but
     only [!  !] blocks are executed (to allow sub definitions on import)
   - Space is converted to %20 instead of +, because that is more generic.
     Suggested by Michael Blakely.
   - EmbperlObject now automaticly defines all subs that are declared
     inside the base template and inside the requested page, so it isn't
     neccessary anymore to call Execute with import => 0 for them.
   - Every Embperl Page now get passed a request object (which can be obtained
     from $_[0]). The request object is a hash reference which is blessed
     into the package HTML::Embperl::Req. Embperl itself don't uses the hash, so
     you are free to populate it and pass data between different pages of one request.
   - EmbperlObject now setup the inherence so that 
       request page -ISA->
       base template -ISA-> 
       EMBPERL_OBJECT_HANDLER_CLASS (if defined) -ISA->
       HTML::Embperl::Req
     and the Embperl request object is blessed into the packages of the
     requested page, so you can do methods calls to subs that are defined
     inside the requested page.
   - correct spelling error and renamed ScanEnvironement to ScanEnvironment.
     (ScanEnvironement still works).
   - EmbperlObject can now be used also offline (via HTML::EmbperlObject::Execute)   
   - MailFormTo and HTML::Embperl::Mail::Execute now have a configuration
     directive EMBPERL_MAILHELO, can be used to specify the host/domain for the 
     HELO/EHLO command. Suggested by Remco Brink.
   - Fixed a bug that caused the default drive to be incorrectly set on Win 32.

 

=head1 1.3b3 (BETA)  25.04.2000

   - Fixed SIGSEGV which occurs in cleanup with Perl 5.6. Spotted by 
     Aaron Johnson.
   - Changed make test so it works correctly with new error messages of
     Perl 5.6. 
   - Fixed a bug that Execute will always fail when $@ was set before.
     Patch from Francis J. Lacoste.
   - Changed test so it accpects charset in Content-Type header from
     Apache 1.3.12
   - The outputfile parameter now also works when running under 
     mod_perl. Spotted by Ilia Lobsanov.
   - Makefile.PL warns if you build with a DSO mod_perl < 1.22
   - make test checks that test files are readable by Apache. 
   - Applied a patch from Jens-Uwe Magner to make Embperl work
     with mod_perl 1.22 on AIX. We now require mod_perl 1.22,
     but I should now work as DSO and staticly linked.
   - Applied a patch from Francis J. Lacoste that makes sure
     that when a package name is given the file is always compiled
     into this package. Note: This means that if you specify a
     packagename and the packagename differs from request to
     request, the page is compiled for every package and therfore
     consuming memory on every request. 
   - Added EMBPERL_SESSION_HANDLER_CLASS which allows you to overwrite
     Embperl defaults session handling. Idea form Barrie Slaymaker.
   - Added EmbperlLogo.gif to the distribution, which contains
     "Powered by Embperl".
   - Added Patch from Randy Kobes that makes Embperl compile with
     Apache 1.3.12 and Perl 5.6 on Win32. 
   - Removed some -w warnings form EmbperlObject
   - Added tests for EmbperlObject
   - Fixed a SIGSEGV that occured when Embperl found [*] inside
     a page. Spotted by Barrie Slaymaker.
   - Added epchar.c.min which contains translation tables which
     let's all chars above 128 untouched. This is usefull for
     processing two byte charsets. Patch from Sangmook Yi.
   - The searchpath (EMBPERL_PATH) now uses semikolons (';') instead 
     of colons (':') to avoid problems with Windows drive letters.
     Colons still work on Unix.
            

=head1 1.3b2 (BETA) 11. Feb 2000

   - added new mod_perl handler EmbperlObject, which helps to build whole
     pages out of small objects, which can be overwritten in "derived"
     pages.
     EmbperlObject allows you to define the standard layout of your site just
     once and includes the neccessary components based on the uri. Your HTML
     documents just have to contain the unique stuff and not the common stuff
     like headers/footers or navigation bars. Also these common elements can 
     be overwritten in each subdirectory.
   - added EMBPERL_PATH (and path parameter to Execute), which can contain
     a colon separated search path. Embperl uses it when a file, which does
     not contain a path, is executed.
   - added new module HTML::Embperl::Mail which sends a file processed via
     Embperl by email.
   - Fixed a bug, that the logfile if opened also EMBPERL_DEBUG is set
     to zero. Now if debug is zero, no logfile will be opened. Spotted
     by Jason Bodnar and Christian Gilmore.   

=head1 1.2.1  5. Jan 2000

   - fdat parameter of Execute function isn´t honoured when
     call from CGI script which has received multipart/formdata.
     Spotted by NHan H. Trinh.
   - @ffld was not correctly setup, when only fdat parameter is
     given in calls to Execute.
   - if mtime parameter is undef or 0, now the pcode really isn't
     cached. Spotted by Neeme Vool.
   - EMBPERL_OPTIONS and EMBPERL_DEBUG (debug, options) accepts
     now decimal, binary, octal and hex values.
   - fix a SIGSEGV that could occur under rare conditions in
     cleanup. With help from Todd Eigenschink and Gary Shea.
   - fix a problem that $req_rec is not correctly setup inside
     imported subs. Reported by Cliff Rayman.
   - specify domain/hostname when sending mail via MailFormTo
   - add EMBPERL_MAILFROM config, to make sender used by
     MailFormTo configurable    
   - add EMBPERL_MAILDEBUG config, to allow debugging of email
     problems in MailFormTo
   - ProxyInput now handles posted form data. Spotted by 
     Neeme Vool.
   - EMBPERL_INPUT_FUNC now allows to also give the name
     under which the source should cached, to allow correct
     cacheing of data read via EMBPERL_INPUT_FUNC. Spotted by
     Neeme Vool.
   - Fixed a SIGSEGV in OPTION tag which occurs due to
     different integer sizes on 64Bit systems. With help
     from David Waldo. 


=head1 1.2.0  17 Nov 1999

   - test script had failed in cgi mode on win32. Spotted by 
     Randy Korbes.

=head1 1.2b11 (BETA)  4 Nov 1999

   - Added the "Status:" header and error message to embpcgi.pl to
     let Apache return the correct status line. Patch from Jason Holt.
   - Fixed problem that Apache SIGSEGVs when an error message contains
     a %x. Spotted by Ed Park.
   - Added missing BEGIN block in docs for Session handling.
   - Fixed an endless loop that occured when tainting is on and
     the same document is called two times via Execute. With help
     from Jason Holt.
   - Changed access to addtional upload fileinfo. The old syntax
     (${${$fdat{<name_of_field>}}}) isn't available anymore, because
     it doesn't work with filenames that are not a vaild perl
     variable name. Now there is a second field which start with a
     dash that's holds a hash ref to the file info. Spotted by 
     Huang-Ming Pan.
   - The Embperl specific part of Apache session (former 
     Apache::Session::Embperl) is now part of the Embperl distribution
     (as HTML::Embperl::Session). This makes Embperl independ of
     new releases of Apache::Session. Embperl now works with 
     Apache::Session version 1.00 and higher. Apache::Session 0.17 is still
     supported, but the documentation is removed, because it should no
     longer be used.
   - Apache::Session must not be preloaded prior to Embperl. It's
     enought to set EMBPERL_SESSION_CLASSES and Embperl will bring
     the right modules in memory for you.
   - Removed the call to mod_perl_sent_header, which was an workaround
     for an problem with (very) old mod_perl version, because it doesn't 
     resolve on (every) IRIX. Spotted by Jearanai Vongsaard.
   - NOT_FOUND, FORBIDDEN now also logged thru Apache, so the LogLevel is
     honoured and log message in Apache error log get a time stamp.
     Spotted by Christian Gilmore.
   - Removed warings that apears when compiling with -Wall.
   - Added URL of better emacs mode for Embperl from Erik Arneson.
   - Added new paramter 'errors' to Execute function which takes an
     array ref, that returns any error messages. Suggested by
     James Elson.
   - Fixed that serveral options where not settable inside an Embperl page.
     Spotted by Ilya Ketris.

=head1 1.2b10 (BETA) 7 Oct. 1999

   - Fixed a great security whole in CGI mode. Because Apache passes
     anything after the first '?' to the cgi script as commandline
     arguments, embpexec.pl could be tricked into offline mode, where
     it returned any file that is readable by the httpd! So if you are
     using CGI mode, I strongly recommend to update to 1.2b10.
     Now you must use embpcgi.pl instead of embpexec.pl in CGI mode.
     Spotted by Jason Holt.
   - Added EMBPERL_ALLOW. If the file doesn't EMBPERL_ALLOW Embperl
     will return forbidden. This is primarly another security
     feature, because dependig on the way you use Embperl in CGI mode,
     it will not honour all Apache access restrictions. With 
     EMBPERL_ALLOW, you can now force it to serve only certain
     files. Suggested by Jason Holt.
   - Fixed a problem that had occured with magic SVs (tied scalar)
     as source for the Execute function. Spotted by Todd Eigenschink.
   - Embperl works now with Apache::Session 0.17, 1.02 and 1.04
     (1.03 is errornous)
   - Fixed a SIGSEGV that occurs when the req_rec parameter of the
     Execute functions gets a Apache::Request object instead of a
     Apache object, which occured due to the different ways the
     Apache internal request_rec is stored inside the object.
     Spotted by Francis J. Lacoste.	
   - Fixed a SIGSEGV that occured when outputting to a scalar and
     optReturnError is set. Spotted by Francis J. Lacoste.
   - Added a ; after the begin block in startup.pl, which seems had
     cause a syntax error in some situations. Spotted by Oyvind Gjerstad.
   - exit now works the same in offline, mod_perl and cgi mode, it
     ends the execution of the page, but not the programm itself.
   - exit inside a sub will now really exit the page. (but exit inside
     a file called via Execute will only exit this file, not the whole
     request) Spotted by Cliff Rayman.     
   - Added new hash %http_headers_out which could be used to set arbitary
     http header under mod_perl _and_ in cgi mode. "Location" header will
     automaticly set status to 301.
   - setting http headers and <META HTTP-EQUIV=..> now works also
     in cgi mode.
   - Session Handling now also works in CGI mode (needs
     Apache::Session >= 1.04)
   - ACTION attribute of Formtag is now URL en/decoded. Spotted by
     Hartmut Palm.

=head1 1.2b9 (BETA) 10. Sept 1999

   - Fixed a problem with loading Apache::Session 1.01, when
     Apache::Session 0.17 is not installed. Spotted by Volker Hess.

=head1 1.2b8 (BETA) 9. Sept 1999

   - Fixed behaviour of <INPUT>. <INPUT> now does not overide
     VALUE="" with the value from %fdat. This seems to has been
     broken, since a couple of versions and the fix may break
     pages that depends on that wrong behaviour. Anyway I have
     to fix it before the release version is out!
   - Added a patch (and a FAQ) from Jens-Uwe Mager, so Embperl compiles
     and links on AIX.
   - Fixed error in URL unescaping, spotted by Hartmut Palm.
   - _WINSOCK2API_ gets defined on Win32, when compiling with
     Apache 1.3.9. Spotted by Randy Korbes.
   - Win32 test uses also embpexec.test.pl (instead of .bat),
     so cgi test runs also with Apache 1.3.9. Spotted by Randy Korbes.
   - Fixed problem with EMBPERL_SESSION_ARGS that splits the arguments
     wrong when, for example, the DataSource contains a '='. Spotted by
     Vince Galloway.
   - Fix a memory leak which eats one SV per <OPTION> tag, introduced
     in 1.2b6.
   - Fix a problem that meta commands also recognized as html tags, i.e.
     now <if x> is no longer the same as [$ if x $]. Spotted by Danielle Gallo.
   - German documentation (IntroD.pod, FeaturesD.pod and EmbperlD.pod)
     are now included in the distribution.

=head1 1.2b7 (BETA) 30 Aug 1999

   - Embperl works now with Apache::Session 1.01 
     (1.01 _not_ 1.00 or below!)
   - Cookie for session id is only send the first time and not
     resend if it's already known by the browser. Suggested
     by Roman Maeder.	
   - Fixed a SIGSEGV that occurs with $optRawInput = 1 and a 
     value is in %fdat, but not in the input html tag. Spotted
     by Robert.	

=head1 1.2b6 (BETA) 19 Aug 1999

   - When call another page via Execute EMBPERL_VIRTLOG will
     automaticly set to the same value as the in the calling page	
   - Add parameter 'firstline' to specify the linenumber of the
     first line in the input
   - Defined missing DECLINED constant for non mod_perl environement
     Spotted by James Elson.
   - Inside of an A tag URL escaped characters are translated back
     to their ascii aquivalent inside of perl code, before the code
     is executed. This avoid problems with HTML editors, which
     changes space to %20 inside an URL.
   - '%' is escaped to %25 inside of URLs
   - Inside the A tag only the HREF attribute is URL escaped, instead
     of the whole tag.
   - The SRC attribute of embed, frame, iframe, img, layer now are
     also URL escaped.
   - Giving a an array refernce inside an URL, cause Embperl expand
     it to URL parameter syntax (i.e. [+ \@A +] becomes A=1&B=2, when
     @A = (A, 1, B, 2) ).
   - Embperl checks now for unclosed metacommands (if, while etc.) and
     unclosed HTML tags (table etc.). Suggest by Todd Eigenschink.
   - Fixed a problem when file was not found, which causes in some cases
     a SIGSEGV.
   - Added new configuration directive EMBPERL_MAIL_ERRORS_TO. If set
     all error messages will be send to the given address.
   - input_/output_func parameter can take a code reference as
     argument. Based on a patch from Jon Tobey.
   - Set force PERL_DL_NONLAZY to zero, so make test does not fail
     if dynaloader was initialized with PERL_DL_NONLAZY set.
     Patch from John Tobey.    
   - [$ foreach $i(x..y) $] does not require a space before the (
     anymore. Suggested by Jonny Cavell.
   - select <option value="a &amp; b"> works now correctly. Spotted by
     Rick Welykochy.
   - Fixed SegFault when parameter input => is numeric. Spotted by
     Cliff Rayman.
   - Added option optNoUncloseWarn, which disables the warnings
     about unclosed if, while, table etc.


=head1 1.2b5 (BETA)  5 July 1999

   - Renamed __strdup and __strndup so there are no duplicate 
     symbols when compiling with glibc. Spotted by Michael Hall.
   - Removed some debugging message from the logfile output.
   - Correct some wrong table entries for html escaping of some
     characters like §
   - Added optReturnError which causes Embperl to return an
     error code and let the calling programm (i.e. Apache)
     handle the error. This is necessary to use the
     ErrorDocument directive together with Embperl. Spotted by
     Michael Smith.
   - Fixed the problem that the output of Execute inside a table
     didn't come out when optEarlyHttpHeader was set. Spotted by
     Chris Alexander.
   - %fdat of a Execute will not be overwritten anymore when the
     %fdat of the main request was empty. Spotted by Chris Alexander.
   - fixed a small memory leak which was caused by not releasing 
     memory space for the cookie-name/-domain etc.
   - added the missing -T switch to embpexec.test.bat, which caused the
     taint test in cgi mode to fail on win32
   - Added epchar.c.iso-latin-2 from Jiri Novak, which contains the correct
     escaping for the iso-8859-2 (iso-latin-2) character set. You may use it
     to replace the standard epchar.c
   - Added new metacommand [$ sub <name> $] and [$ endsub $] which allows
     you to define blocks of code an call them mulitple times inside a page,
     either a creating a subrequest Execute('#<name>') or by calling them
     directly as a perl subroutine [- <name> -]. Read the docs for more
     information on the details and differences.
   - Added new parameter "import" to Execute, which let's you import subs
     (defined with [$sub <name>$]) into the current page.
   - @ffld is filled with 'values %fdat' if the ffld parameter in the call
     to the Execute funtion is missing.
   - Filedata will held into memory until the end of the request, so a
     second call to Execute for the same file will not reread the data
     from disk.
   - Added emacs/embperl.el. It's a emacs minor mode for Embperl written
     by Erik Arneson
   - Output of dbgShowCleanup is now sorted by name
   - Update the Faq.pod with new Q&A and removed obsolete Q&A
   - Made Makefile.PL more smarter in DSO situations. It detecteds now 
     which of the needed Apache modules are linked staticly and places
     neccessary LoadModule statements in the httpd.conf for make test.
     This way make test should work also where all modules linked at
     runtime, like on RedHat 6. With help form James H. Thompson.
   - Makefile.PL ask´s now if it can´t find any modules. On win32
     it will not try to guess (the maybe wrong) path anymore.
   - Added possibility to get the the uploadInfo from CGI.pm
     (e.g. ${${$fdat{upload}}} -> {'Content-Type'} will return the
      content type). Requested by Brian Reichert.
   - Catch die of CGI.pm when it hit's a 'Malformed multipart POST'.
     Spooted by Chris Alexander.
   - Add optKeepSrcInMemory which tells Embperl to keep the source
     file in memory and not reload it on every request
   - Added the possibility to use recursive calls to Execute.
     NOTE: You can create local variables via [* local $foo ; *]
   - Reworked the cleanup. Now imported values from other modules
     left unchanged. This solves problems with using modules
     inside Embperl pages, which exports some global variables.
   - Added the %CLEANUP hash. Put variables into with should be
     additional cleaned up ($CLEANUP{'var'} = 1) or which shouldn't
     cleaned up ($CLEANUP{'var'} = 0)
   - Special handling for DBIx::Recordset objects, so it's sure
     they are really get destroyed 
   - fixed a problem with dynamic tables, that occurs when you
     had tried to repeat multiple table rows
   - Embperl compiles now with perl5.005_57+. Patch from Ask Bjoern Hansen
   - Cleanup now logs any errors that occurs when calling object
     destructors and makes sure errors inside object destructors do
     not break Embperl itself.
   - Embperl now returns DECLINED when called for a directory. This
     way Apache can handle diretories the correct way. This will make
     DiretoryIndex (e.g. index.html) work again with Embperl. 
   - Fixed a problem that @ffld contains the same field more then
     one time if posted from a select multiple with multiple items
     selected. This caused problems with [$hidden$]. Spotted by
     Martin Leja.
   - Double quotes (") will be url-encoded to %22 inside URLs.
   - Embperl now never writes to the logfile if EMBPERL_DEBUG is zero
   - make test now runs with newest version of mod_ssl (2.3.5)
   - Added option optKeepSpaces which will disable the removing of spaces
     and empty lines from the output. Suggested from Gary Shea.
   - Added option optOpenLogEarly, which will cause Embperl to open the
     logfile as soon as it is loaded into memory. You can use this when
     you loaded Embperl via PerlModule under Apache, to open the log
     as root instead of the non-privileged user Apache runs as.

=head1 1.2b4 (BETA)  15 Feb 1999


   - fixed a problem that $req_rec was sometimes invalid on the 
     second call to the same page causing Embperl to SIGSEGV.
     With help of Todd Eigenschink.
   - Cleanup the variable space inside Embperl pages. Before this
     fix many of the internal my variables were visible to the 
     Embperl page. Spotted by Todd Eigenschink. 
   - multiple form values with the same name are handled now
     correctly (concated in a tab delimited string) when send
     in a multipart/form-data (file-upload). Spotted by Dirk
     Lutzebaeck.
   - The dbgForm flag works now also for multipart/form-data
   - a missing right *] will be reported as an error. 
   - [[* is correctly output as [* and not interpreted as a
     starting of a perl block. Spotted by Dirk Lutzebaeck.
   - fixed a bug that causes the html after an endforeach to be
     skiped, when the foreach loop gets an empty array as argument.
     Spotted by Dirk Lutzebaeck.
   - Makefile.PL checks now for required modules and versions and
     generates warnings if necessary
   - Do not CLEAR %udat and %mdat in cleanup, so Apache::Session
     will not warn anymore about unsupported CLEAR operation.
   - Added tests for session management (%udat, %mdat)
   - Added more tests to see that $req_rec is correctly setup
   - Added module Apache::Session::epDBI which is a subclass of
     Apache::Session::DBI and corrects a problem with locking and
     cares of serializing requests, so %mdat works correctly.
     Please read IMPORTANT NOTE under Session Management in
     Embperl.pod
   - Added the dbgProfile flag which cause the display of the time
     since the request start for every source line in the logfile.
   - Correct a problem that the escape character ('\') was not removed
     when unescaping the input. Now '&lt;' is correctly translated
     to '<'  and '\&lt;' is translated to '&lt;' . 
   - When requesting to view the logfile via the browser now all
     lines which does not start with a pid ([<pid>]) are displayed.
   - fixed a problem, that sometimes not all errors are shown in the
     error page, in conjunction with dynamic tables
   - When running under perl 5.005 or higher, the cleanup after the
     every request, now not only cleans up scalars, array and hashs,
     but also closes all open file- and directoryhandles and undef's
     all typglob (which causes for example DBIx::Recordset objects to
     DESTROY correctly)
     NOTE: This also causes imported variables from other packages/modules
     not to be cleanedup anymore!!
     NOTE: That the cleanup behaveiour under perl 5.004 and 5.005 is
     slightly differnt! The new cleanup doesn't work with 5.004 because 
     of a bug, which should be corrected in 5.004_05 as soon as available.
   - EMail adress from the form is insert as Reply-To header instead of
     From header in MailFormTo to avoid problems with unresolvable
     EMail adresses.
   - Fixed the problem that session management (%udat, %mdat) didn't
     work when Execute is used in the same page. Spotted by by Simon Lindgren. 
   - Fixed a path problem in Makefile.PL. Now pathes on Win32 Systems uses
     blackslash instead of slash. Spotted by Randy Kobes.
   - Win32 batch files will no longer contain path to perl after the #!,
     so cgi tests passes on systems with 4DOS shell. Spotted by Randy Kobes.
   - Added ; as terminator for cookie to correctly parse multiple cookies.
     Patch from Tim Carrol.    
   - Changed table_set to table_add when setting the cookie for session data
     to avoid problems with other modules setting also cookies.
   - Corrected the %ENV problem that mod_perl-1.18 introduced, so both 
     work together again.
   - Added dbgSession flag to enable/disable logging of session handling
   - Added configuration diretives EMBPERL_COOKIE_NAME, EMBPERL_COOKIE_DOMAIN,
     EMBPERL_COOKIE_PATH and EMBPERL_COOKIE_EXPIRES to configure the cookie
     which holds the session id. Suggested by Cliff Rayman.


=head1 1.2b3 (BETA)  22 Nov 1998

   - fixed an undefined pointer which occurs when using precompiled
     [* ... *] blocks. Spotted by Bruce W. Holyman and Paul J. Schinder
   - removed unwanted 0xa0 characters from tagscan.htm which causes
     the test to fail on sunos. Spotted by Paul J. Schnider.
   - Enhanced the detection of Stronghold, Apache SSL and mod_ssl
     so they are found if they are not in a standard path. Spotted 
     by Brad Cox.
   - Convert relativ path for apache source to absolute to avoid
     problems within test script. Spotted by Brad Cox.  
   - Make Embperl compile with useperio=defined. Spotted by Todd
     Eigenschink.
   - Makefile.PL does now check if mod_perl is compiled into apache
     and don't create a config for USE_DSO situtation even if
     libperl.so exists.
   - Added a workarround in the Execute('foo.htm') call, to avoid a
     bug in perl5.004 which causes a SIGSEGV. Spotted by Michael J.
     Schout and Chris Alexander.


=head1 1.2b2 (BETA) 9 Nov 1998

   - There is now a short form of the Execute function. You can
     now include a sub page in an Embperl page by simply writing
     [- Execute ('filename.html') -] or use
     [- Execute ('filename.html', 1, 2, 3) -] to pass additional
     parameters
   - Added new block [* ... *]. This block compiles code to an 
     outer subroutine which surounds the whole page. This makes
     it possible to define "local" variables with a scope of the 
     whole page, which would be necessary for recursive calls
     to Execute.
     Also this let you use perl control structures inside Embperl
     pages:  e.g.  
         [* foreach $v (1..5) { *] Cnt = [+ $v +] [* } *]
     NOTE: [* ... *] blocks _must_ always end with a ;,{ or }
           [* ... *] cannot apear inside html tags that are 
           interpreted by Embperl (unless you disable the
           interpretation of such tags like table, input etc.)
   - Added a comment block: Everything between [# and #] is a
     comment and is removed from the output.
     NOTE: [* ... *] blocks also interpreted inside of a 
           [# ... #] block, all other blocks [+/-/$ $/-/+] are not.           
   - Added magic hash %mdat, which can be used to store persitent
     data on a per module basis (needs Apache::Session, with
     path in session.patch applied)
   - Done more tests on session handling, seems to work fine now.
   - Added new option dbgNoHiddenEmptyValue which suppresses
     empty hidden input fields in the [$hidden$] meta command.
     Patch from Steve Willer.
   - Whitespaces after [...] blocks are removed in the output, so
     there will be less empty lines, makeing the output shorter and
     more readable, based on a patch from Todd Eigenschink.
   - Embperl compiles now with mod_ssl (from Ralf Engelschall). 
     Spotted by Dirk Lutzebaeck and Randel Schwartz.
   - Added a patch from Todd Eigenschink to build Embperl with
     Stronghold 2.4.1
   - Added patch from Gerald McLarnon so Embperl compiles on AIX
   - Added optAllowZeroFileSize to accept files of length 0, 
     without that option Embperl will report NOT_FOUND. 
     Suggested by Doug Bagley

   - fixed a wrong call to logerror when OPT_EXECCGI is not on, 
     spotted by Dirk Lutzebaeck.
   - fixed the problem that reloads only takes place at the next day,
     because mtime was an int instead of a double (introduced in1.2b1.
     Spotted by Michael Smith and Roman Maeder. 
   - fixed a problem that changing of the filesize was ignored, when
     a documents is reloaded (introducted in 1.2b1)
   - cleanup for all subpages are disabled if main request has
     disabled cleanup and subpages does not specify otherwise
   - dbgShowCleanup works again
   - Every package is only cleanuped once, also it's included multiple
     times in one page
   - %fdat and @ffld are setup correctly when optDisableVarCleanup
     is set
   - DEFS=-DEPDEBUGALL compiles again, spotted by Michael Smith
   - fixed that cleanup is never called with Execute nesting, when
     req_rec was not set. Now the parameter req_rec isn't necessary
     anymore. Spotted by Michael J.Schout
   - Changes of $escmode inside a HTML-A tag now handled correctly,
     spotted by Michael Smith
   - fixed problems with links to the logfile and the line break
     in the html log file display 
   - fixed a problem with blocks that expand to nothing inside of Embperl
     interpreted HTML tags.
   - Adapted test script to modified error output of Apache 1.3.4.
     Spotted by Eric Cholet.
   - Empty values (VALUE="") in input tags will not be overridden by
     value in %fdat


=head1 1.2b1 (BETA)  8 Oct 1998

   - I have reworked the whole source code so Embperl is now
     going to be an object. This means Embperl is reentrant, you
     can call Execute within an Embperl page, for example to include
     the same header on each page.
   - Addeded Session handling via Apache::Session. Simply store data
     to %udat and let Embperl do the rest for you. Experimental!
     NOTE: You need Apache-Session-0.16.1 or higher and must apply
     the patch from session.patch to it.
   - Added test for calling Execute inside a Embperl page
   - Errors of Input/Output function now also log to the httpd error log
   - Added an test for input file not found

=head1 1.1.1  15 Sep 1998

   - A lot of documentation updates. Now Embperl ships with most of 
     the documentation which is also available on 
           http://perl.apache.org/embperl/
     This includes:
     - Intro.pod  an introduction to Embperl
     - Faq.pod    an new very much extented version of the FAQ
     and a lot of spell checking, gramar checking and so on
     Thanks very much to Nora Mikes for putting together the FAQ
     and doing a lot of proof reading.
   - eg/x/upload.htm an example for file upload within Embperl
   - splited documentation out of Embperl.pm into Embperl.pod
     to make it load a little bit faster (Embperl.pm is now 30K
     instead of 90K)
   - Optimized the loading of other modules. Other modules are now
     only loaded when really necessary. This make Embperl in CGI mode
     about 2 times faster then version 1.1.0 was.
   - Added a test for file-upload
   - Embperl compiles and works now with threaded perl, but Embperl
     is currently B<not> threadsafe. So you can use Embperl in a
     threaded environement, but you have to make sure that only one
     thread useses Embperl at a time.
   - Fixed a memory leak which has occured in checkboxes and selects 
   - Enhanced test.pl
   - MailFormTo: Send \n after mail header to work correctly with all 
     mail servers, added EMBPERL_MAILHOST to specify mail server hostname,
     MailFormTo dies when it can't connect to mailserver. Spotted by
     Steffen Geschke.

=head1 1.1.0  28 Jul 98

   - Added support for perl5.005 (currently only without threads!)
   - Nesting of metacommands and HTML tags are now independent of
     each other. 
   - Added examples in eg/x for do .. until, foreach, if, 
     DBI datbase access, DBIx::Recordset database access and a
     input- / confirmation form.
   - Added optUndefToEmptyValue which will cause Embperl to treat non-
     existent values in %fdat as an empty string in input tags, as suggested
     by Steve Willer.
   - Catch "die" within EMBPERL_INPUT/OUTPUT_FUNC and write error
     message to the logfile
   - Write error message of LWP::UserAgent in ProxyInput to logfile
     if any
   - Added test for POST Requests
   - Added support for tests when mod_perl is built with USE_DSO. 
     Spotted by Christian Oyarzun.

   - Selects and checkboxes are setup correctly if state is set via %fdat.
     Spotted by Todd Eigenschink and Steve Willer.
   - Changes URL escaping so that only space, '+', '&', '=' and chars < 0x20
     will be escaped to avoid problems with older netscape browsers.
   - Added missing documentation for req_rec parameter of the Execute
     function. Spotted by Eric Cholet.
   - Send correct http header for error page, spotted by Steve Willer
   - Fixed a memory leak in foreach metacommand
   - Removed limit of 2048 Bytes for GET request data (there is no
     limit anymore). Spotted by Steve Willer
   - Read all POSTed data (not just the first 1024 Bytes). Patch from
     Steve Willer.
   - Removed some compiler warnings spotted by Tarang Kumar Patel
   - Make sure all data is flushed to the logfile at the end of
     each request
   - Fixed a bug that causes Init to set DebugFlags to 1 instead of 0.
     Spotted by Eric Cholet.

=head1 1.1b2  27 Jun 98

   - Added an additional note for input- and output- escaping
     which is described in "Inside Embperl" section.
     It's very important to understand this if you have any
     problems with HTML tags or filehandles in your Perl code.
   - Embperl will recognize Apache::exit. If called inside an
     Embperl page or in a module called from an Embperl page,
     the processing of the document is immediately aborted. 
     Everything processed so far is output/sent to the browser.
     Based on a patch from Steve Willer.
   - When running under mod_perl, 'exit' is an alias for Apache::exit
     in every document.
   - Enhanced the format of the Errorpage. Thanks for the patch
     from Steve Willer
   - Added a [$ foreach $] and a [$ do $] ... [$ until $]
     metacommand

   - Now multiple checkboxes with the same name will be set
     correctly, to the values posted to the document. Spotted
     by Todd Eigenschink and Nathan Krislock.
   - [+ local $escmode = 0 .... +] works now. The first setting
     of $escmode in a [+ ... +] block will now applied to the
     whole block. You cannot change $escmode inside a [+ ... +]
     block. Spotted by Chris Thormann. 
   - Fixed the return path setting in MailFormFields
   - ProxyInput now passes http headers, so authentification
     will be passed thru.
   - Removed the limit 2048 for the length of HTML tags when [+ ... +]
     are included. Now there is no limit anymore. Spotted by Doug Bagley


=head1 1.1b1  14 Jun 98

   - Now you can set custom input and/or output functions via
     EMBPERL_INPUT_FUNC and EMBPERL_OUTPUT_FUNC. This can be
     used to chain modules together or to get the input from
     (or put the output to) non-standard locations.
   - Added a function ProxyInput which can be used to fetch 
     the input from another URL instead of the disk. One possible
     usage for this is to let mod_include parse the document first 
     and then let Embperl process it. Suggested by Steffen Geschke.
   - Added a function LogOutput, which will write every generated
     document to a unique file in addition to sending it to the
     browser. Suggested by Dan Peterson.
   - EMBPERL_FILESMATCH allows you to select which files in
     a Location should be processed by Embperl. The rest are handled
     by the Apache default handler. This allows you to have 
     Embperl and non-Embperl documents (like gifs etc.) in
     the same directory.

   - Logfile was displayed at the wrong position when requested via the
     browser the first time after the httpd was started.

=head1 1.0.0  12 Jun 98

   - Make test runs with Apache 1.3.0, spotted by Eric Cholet
   - Added a definition for MAX_PATH, which is not there on SunOS 4.1.4.
     Spotted by Dan Peterson
   - Fixed a bug that causes Makefile.PL to interpret MakeMaker parameters
     spotted by Jason Bodnar
   - Fixed a bug that caused EMBPERL_PACKAGE not to be recognized.
   - Fixed a bug that caused optDisableFormData not to be recognized for
     multipart formdata.

=head1 0.28-beta 19 May 1998

   - I have added a chapter "Inside Embperl" to the docs, I hope this
     will make it clearer how escaping and unescaping works and how you
     can get desired results. Highly recommended! (Thanks for spell- and 
     grammar-checking to Todd Eigenschink)
   - make test now runs under win32 (You need to install LWP and libwin32)
     IMPORTANT: You need a mod_perl version > 1.11 or you get a deadlock.
   - Compiles with apache_1.3b6
   - Added support for Stronghold and Apache_SSL to Makefile.PL and test.pl
   - Changed dbgEarlyHttpHeader to optEarlyHttpHeader because it's not a
     debugging option. dbgEarlyHttpHeader still persists, but will be removed
     in one of the following versions
   - Embperl does not change the current working directory when optDisableChdir
     is set, this saves some milliseconds per request, also the cwd is moved
     to the c code, so it runs faster then Cwd::fastwd.
     Thanks to Doug Bagley for the profile which has shown how much time 
     Cwd::fastcwd consumes
   - You can set optDisableHtmlScan in EMBPERL_OPTIONS. If set, Embperl only
     recongizes [+/-/$/! ... !/$/-/+], but will not do anything with HTML tags,
     as suggested by Randy Harmon.
   - optDisableInputScan, optDisableTableScan and optDisableMetaScan can be
     used to disable only some of the HTML tag processing
   - You can set optDisableFormData in EMBPERL_OPTIONS. If set, Embperl
     will not setup the %fdat and @ffld, as suggested by Doug Bagley
   - If you use Execute, the explicit call to Init/Term isn't needed anymore,
     because Embperl performs the Init automatically when it is loaded. The 
     Init function can still be used to change the path of logfile. Suggested
     by Honza Jirousek
   - All options and debugging flags can now be read/set at runtime. For
     example $optRawInput = 1 sets the optRawInputFlag. Some of the options
     are read-only, because they must be known before the request.   
   - Added more tests  
   - Embperl discards all errors which occur in an expression after the end
     of a dynamic table, and which are only evaluated to detect the table end and
     never displayed. This allows usage of object methods in dynamic tables,
     where the table end is caused by an undefined object. (see
     test/html/object.htm for an example). Spotted by Jason Bodnar.
   - Printing to filehandle OUT has the same effect as using [+ .. +] 
     (including html-escaping)
   - Setting optRedirectStdout causes Embperl to tie STDOUT to the Embperl
     output stream (same as print OUT ...), suggested by Jason Bodar
   - Setting optAllFormData will make empty formfields occur in %fdat and @ffld
     with an empty string value, suggested by Dan Peterson

   - Embperl now handles SELECT MULTIPLE correct. All OPTIONs which are
     posted to the document will now be selected by Embperl, spotted by
     Todd Eigenschink
   - Fixed a bug that caused a '>' inside a [$/! ... !/$] block to be 
     interpreted as the end of a HTML tag, spotted by Todd Eigenschink.
   - Fixed a bug which caused the SELECT/OPTIONS tag to not insert their
     values in %idat and therefore made [$hidden$] work incorrectly, spotted by
     Dave Paris [aka Spider]
   - Fixed a bug that caused the INPUT CHECKBOX tag to not insert its  
     value in %idat when the value wasn't in %fdat and therefore made [$hidden$] 
     work incorrectly.
   - Fixed a problem that caused magical variables to be handled as if they
     were undefined, which caused dynamic tables to end, sometimes prematurely.
   - Closing HTML tags will be correctly removed form Perl source again
     (when optRawInput is not set)
   - &nbsp; will be translated to space (0x20) instead of 0xf0
   - When EMBPERL_DEBUG is set 0, only errors and warnings will be written to
     the logfile
   - MailFormTo will generate the correct TO header and insert a Return-Path
     from the posted e-mail address
   - Changed detection of mod_perl to $ENV{MOD_PERL}. This makes sure that
     it will work correctly, even if Apache.pm isn't loaded.
   - Re-entered the optDisableEmbperlErrorPage, which was lost in one of the last
     releases, spotted by Doug Bagley.
   - The content_length of the Apache request_rec will only be set when a http
     header is sent.
   - If, Elsif and While metacommands now use SvTRUE instead of a != 0 to test the
     evaluated expression, so they now behave like the Perl ones do. Spotted by Jason 
     Bondar

=head1 0.27-beta not available

=head1 0.26-beta 16 Mar 98

   - Adapt include pass to compile with apache_1.3b5
   - Applied patch from Dan Walters to make Embperl compile with 
     apache_1.3b3 and mod_perl on Win 32
   - Changed the order of included c headers and undef some macros 
     inbetween (copied from mod_perl.c) to compile with Apache on Win 32
   - Embperl works with apache_1.3b5 on Win NT ('make test' does not yet)
     (You need the Apache source and must compile Perl with the vc++)

   - Added the 'param' parameter to the 'Execute' function to pass parameters
     from and to the Embperl document.
   - Added the 'fdat' and 'ffld' parameter to the 'Execute' function to
     setup %fdat and @ffld   
	
   - Fixed a problem which displayed tables a second time after the end of 
     the document, if dbgEarly HttpHeaders was on, thanks to Ask Bjorn Hansen
     for spotting this.
   - Fixed the return values of CheckFile, which was not correct after a change
     from 0.24 to 0.25. Thanks to Todd Eigenschrink for spotting this.
   - Fixed an error which was causing Embperl to crash on an HTML input tag without
     the 'type' parameter. Thanks to Todd Eigenschrink for the hint.
   - Fixed a problem that caused Embperl to not recognize errors correctly 
     when reading the sourcefile
     

=head1 0.25-beta 17 Feb 1998

   - Included the "translation" of the Embperl POD to a human-readable
     form done by Todd Eigenschink
   - Started a FAQ file from the questions I answered by e-mail
   - Added the function Execute, which can be called from Perl programs
     (or Apache::Registry scripts), and can take input from (and/or
     output to) memory, as suggested by Doug Bagley and Randy Harmon
     (Look at test/html/registry/Execute.htm for an example)
   - Changed the source so that it will compile on aix, spotted by
     Patrick McAuliffe 
   - Access sys_errlist via perl macro Strerror to avoid errors with
     redeclaration, thanks for spotting this to Honza Jirousek
   - Changed the tab size from 4 to 8 in my editor to be compatible with
     Unix standard
   - Added warning if dbgLogLink is set and EMBPERL_VIRTLOG is not
   - Changed the delimiter of metacommand from space to any non-alpha char
     to allow writing [$while(a==b)$] as suggested by Michael D. Dowling
   - Added config variable EMBPERL_ESCMODE to set inital values of $escmode
     as suggested by Todd Eigenschink
   - Added [! ... !]. Does just the same as [- ... -] but will only execute
     on the first request for that document. This can be used to do one-time
     initialization and to define subroutines.
   - Changed push_handlers to register_cleanup, so PERL_STACKED_HANDLERS and
     PERL_CLEANUP aren't necessary anymore, as suggested by Doug MacEachern
   - If it exists, the function CLEANUP of the processed document will be called
     before the variable cleanup, but after the connection to the client is closed
   - Added a closing </font> in the logfile which is sent to the browser, otherwise 
     MS IE 4 can't handle it     
   - Changed Perl constants in Perl part from subroutines to "real" constants
   - Did some general rearranging of code

   - Fixed a memory leak which caused Embperl to lose one sv per Perl
     block when a document is reloaded
   - Fixed a bug which caused [+... +] within the Textarea tag to be ignored,
     spotted by Todd Eigenschink
   - Fixed a bug in sorting hidden fields
   - Fixed a wrong argument to MakeMaker, which was causing Embperl to not be able
     to build statically, spotted by Anatoli Belomestnov (and added a 
     description to the Faq on how to build a copy of Embperl which is statically-
     linked to mod_perl)
   - Fixed a problem which was causing the LOG filehandle to not be imported in 
     the documents package, this was causing everything printed to LOG to sort 
     of disappear 
   
=head1 0.24-beta 13 Jan 1998 

   - Added the option optRawInput which causes Embperl not to pre-process the
     source for a Perl expression (the only exception is that CR will be removed).
     This option should be set when you are writing your code with an ascii editor. 
     If you are using a WYSIWYG editor, which inserts unwanted HTML tags in your
     Perl expressions and escapes special characters automatically (i.e.
     < will occur as &lt; in the source), you should not set this option, and
     Embperl will automatically convert the HTML input back to the Perl
     expression you have written. (Thanks to Todd R. Eigenschink for a patch)
   - $0 is set to the filename of the HTML source
   - Change Current Working Directory to directory of HTML source
   - Warning messages are now also logged in logfile at the correct
     position, next to the source line
   - Perl error and warning messages contain the filename and correct
     linenumber of the HTML source
   - Sourcelines in logfile contain linenumbers
   - Output via [+ ... +] of undefined values at the end of a dynamic table
     (which must be there to end the table) do not generate a warning anymore  
     NOTE: If you use them in an expression (such as $a = $arr[$row] or simply
     inside " ", you will still get a warning)  
   - Open HTML source in binary mode on Win32 to avoid overhead of crlf -> lf
     translation.
   - Use aplog_error for apache_1.3 to avoid senseless os errors written to
     httpd error log

   - Removed some uninitializied value messages when running with
     -w / PerlWarn on, spotted by Todd R. Eigenschink 
   - Fixed a bug which has caused nested 'while' loops to execute incorrectly 
     if the condition of the outer one is false 

=head1 0.23-beta 31 Dec 1997

   - Fixed a bug which caused $req_rec to be not defined anymore (Thanks to
     Todd R. Eigenschink for the hint and debugging)
   - Fixed a bug in escaping special HTML char to normal ascii (Thanks to
     Todd R. Eigenschink for the hint)  	
   - Makefile.PL now sets the path to your Perl binary in embpexec.pl and
     embpexec.test.pl, so that it works regardless of where your Perl is located
     (Thanks to Randall Schwartz for the hint)
   - Added the SSLDisable to the test config when running an httpsd. (Thanks
     to David Scott for the hint and Ralf S. Engelschall for the Syntax)
   - Fixed a bug in <META> tag interpretation which was causing random errors 
     when not compiled for mod_perl

=head1 0.22-beta 28 Dec 1997

    - Changed include path generated in Makefile.PL so Embperl also
      compiles with apache_1.3b3 (Thanks to Doug Bagley for the hint)  

=head1 0.21-beta 25 Dec 1997

    - Embperl offline mode now works under Win 32 (mod_perl and cgi mode
      not tested under Win 32 yet, but maybe it works too)
    - Totally reworked safenamespace and operatormask handling. Works now
      without memory leak, is fully configurable and also does p-code
      caching. If you use it, please look at the documentation, because
      the configuration has changed.
    - Embperl now sends its own error document if it detects an error.
      The page contains all the error messages and if you have the
      dbgLogLink enabled, all errors are links to the corresponding
      line in the logfile. (this can be disabled with optDisableEmbperlErrorPage)
    - Added new metacommand [$VAR ... $], which can be used to declare
      variables and apply the strict pragma (same as use strict ; use vars )  
    - Added debug flag dbgHeadersIn which causes Embperl to log all http 
      headers which are received from the client
    - Don't change any unknown HTML Escapes (i.e. && has been translated
      to ? in versions < 0.21)
    - dbgShowCleanup logs all variables which are automatically undefined at the
      end of a request (for scalars the value is also shown)
    - Error messages will also be cached, so that the compiling of the code
      only takes place once, because erroneous Perl code will cause memory
      leaks in Perl itself if it's compiled on and on and on.
    - Optimized the compiling of the embedded Perl code
    - Changed use Apache::Constants to conform with the new default exports
      introduced in mod_perl-1.07_01
    - Output of the 'hidden' metacommand is sorted in the same order as the input
      from the formfields (sorting order can also be supplied as third argument)
    - <meta http-equiv= ... > will override the corresponding http header
      (this keeps netscape from asking the user to reload the document
      when the content-type differs between the http header and the
      meta http-equiv)
      This can also be used to set http headers
      
    - Fixed a problem that Embperl magic variables do not work when
      the package exists before the first call to Embperl
    - Fixed a problem that caused a SIGSEGV when retrieving the same document
      containing a Perl error for the second time from the same child
    - Fixed a problem that caused Embperl to terminate in offline/cgi-mode
      when the file was not found or when access was forbidden
    - Fixed a problem with the 'hidden' metacommand, which came up when 
      arguments were supplied with surrounding spaces
    - Fixed a problem that Embperl did not handle metacommands correctly
      when HTML tags (e.g. <br>) were embedded
      
=head1 0.20-beta 15 Nov 97

    - Every file is executed in a separate package (don't confuse this 
      with safe namespaces) to reduce unwanted effects on each other
    - Added the configuration directive EMBPERL_PACKAGE which can be used to override
      the automatically-generated package name
    - The namespace (package) used by a request is cleaned up afterwards.
      That means that every scalar, hash or array is undef'ed after the 
      request to make sure nothing is lying around to possibly make the next request
      misbehave.
      This requires mod_perl with PERL_CLEANUP=1 and PERL_STACKED_HANDLER=1!
      NOTE: To get persistent variables, place them in another namespace i.e.
      write $persistent::x instead of $x 
    - Added configuration directive EMBPERL_OPTIONS to configure various runtime
      options. Now only the scalar cleanup can be disabled.
    - use log_error for writing to Apache error log to get timestamp
    - Escaping inside an <A> tag is changed from an HTML escape to a URL escape
      i.e. the space is translated to + and & is translated to %26 and so on
    - Escaping can now be turned on and off via $escmode
    - Concats ENV and cgi_env under mod_perl so that PerlSetEnv can be used
      instead of SetEnv for configuration. In contrast to SetEnv, PerlSetEnv
      allows different values per directory/virtual host
    - Added two links to show source-loglines and eval-loglines when dbgLogLink
      is enabled to have a quick jump to the logfile
    - Reget pid for every request, so the correct one will be written to the
      logfile, also when Embperl is loaded at server startup
    - Check error log in make test, added test for error output

    - Fixed a bug which causes Embperl to cause a SIGSEGV when a Perl syntax
      error occurred
    - Fixed a bug so that a '>' inside of [+/- ... -/+] is not detected as the end
      of an HTML tag (Thanks to Todd R. Eigenschink)

=head1 0.19-beta 29 Oct 97

    - Rewrote the code for the LOG handle. Now the handle LOG is tied so that every
      print/printf is written to embperl.log at the right position. Use this to 
      do logging from your embedded code or modules
    
    - Fixed a bug which caused garbage to be displayed in dynamic tables (or made 
      parts of the table disappear) 

=head1 0.18-beta 25 Oct 97

   - Added caching of p-code. Now all Perl code is compiled only once. On the
     second request, the compiled p-code is used. This makes, for example, the 
     table.htm from the test about 4 times faster on the second run then it was in
     previous versions of Embperl. Also, tables and loops are faster in the first
     request, because the code is only compiled in the first iteration.  
   - <Select>/<option> is now handled like <input>, this means that if a value
     for the select exists in %fdat, the corresponding option is automatically
     selected.
   - Added support for table heading (<th> tag). If all cells in a row are surrounded
     by <th>/</th> instead of <td>/</td> the row is interpreted as column headings and
     printed only once. Row headings are not supported yet, but in one of the next versions... 
   - Added support for multipart/formdata to support fileupload. Embperl automatically 
     detects  multipart/formdata and lets CGI.pm handle it. The results are also
     present in @ffld and %fdat like for normal formdata. See CGI.pm for more docs.
     (Thanks to eigenstr@mixi.net for the idea and material)
   - Now all the output is kept in memory and the http-header are sent when the
     processing is finish. This gives the ability to set http-headers (only under mod_perl)
     within the page. Also now the Content-Length can be sent in the http-header.
     (Thanks to eigenstr@mixi.net for the idea and material)
   - Added tests for mod_perl mode and running as cgi-script, if compilation
     for mod_perl is enabled (Thanks to Doug MacEachern for lots of ideas
     and code I have borrowed from his mod_perl)
   - Removed "= true" in MailFormTo which caused a warning and didn't declare
     syserr_list in ep.h on FreeBSD (Thanks to Michael Fuhr for the hints)
   - Added SYSNOPSIS section to docs to avoid pod2man warning and changed
     apache/src/regx to apache/src/regex in Makefile.PL (Thanks to Bob Wilkinson)
   - Splitted C-sources in some more source files

   - Fixed two minor memory leaks. Now the Embperl test suite can run 1000 times and
     more without making the httpd grow!

=head1 0.17-beta  30 Aug 97

   - Removed some Compiler Warnings (Thanks to Ian Kallen for reporting them)

=head1 0.16-beta  29 Aug 97

   - Added more restrictive access check when running under mod_perl 
     * Option ExecCGI must be set
     * must not be a directory
   - Added a (few) more docs about how to view the Embperl logfile with
     your browser
   - Added a declaration for error-dependent stuff to compile on Solaris, check errno before
     accessing sys_errlist to avoid SIGSEVs, Fixed another warning from Sun Pro C Compiler
     (Thanks to Dan Peterson)
   - Switched I/O to PerlIO if supported by installed Perl version.
     Should now work with sfio (not tested yet)
   - Added possibilty to include Embperl commands in all HTML tags 
     (did not work for body, table and tr tags in previous versions)
   - Will now preserve case of HTML tags
   - Do not interpret unknown HTML tags in any way, so as to handle "<" characters
     which do not start a HTML tag better 
   - Do not display the time needed for the request if CLOCKS_PER_SEC not
     defined (e.g. SunOS - Thanks to Dan Peterson)
   - Added apache_xx/src/regx to include path, to avoid problems when
     Apache was built with its own regx library
   - Now Embperl shows which tags don't match in error message (table, dir, select etc.)
   
   - Fixed a bug which caused "[" characters to be printed even in a false 
     if path   


=head1 0.15-beta  11 July 1997

    - Added interpretation of SELECT Tag to generate dynamic listboxes
      from an arrary 
    - Fixed a problem with dynamic lists
    - Fixed some warnings displayed by the Sun Pro C Compiler (Thanks to Dan Peterson)
    - Fixed an error message about missing IO::Handle 
    - Changed all // comments to /* */ to be more compatible with compilers other
      than the gnu-c compiler
    - Inserted a missing return in oputc which caused a SIGSEV on Solaris  (Thanks 
      to Dan Peterson) 
    - Checked return code of Logfile open, to prevent a SIGSEV when Embperl cannot
      write to the logfile (it now writes an error message in server's errorlog)  
      (Thanks to Dan Peterson)
    - Errors will also be logged to the server's error log (written to stderr)
          

=head1 0.14-beta 30 Juni 1997  

    - adding 8192 to EMBPERL_DEBUG and setting EMBPERL_VIRTLOG will add a link
      to Embperl output, so you can directly view the right part of the logfile
      with your browser
    - Added the LOG filehandle to print to the Embperl logfile
    - Added the possibility to handle multiple form fields with same name
    - chars which are a result of a Perl expression will not be escaped to HTML if
      they are prefixed with a backslash
    - Added support for scanning the parameters of input tags for Perl code i.e.
      [- -] and [+ +] substitution takes place
    - Replaced carriage return in Perl expression with space to avoid Perl 5.004 error
      about carriage return
    - added $req_rec to access the Apache server api when running under mod_perl

    - Fixed a bug in Safe namespace handling which was always causing ERR: 17 Namespace unknown
    - Fixed a bug which caused dynamic tables to end, if a 'if', 'while' and etc. was included 
    - Fixed a bug that caused [$cmd$] to be executed only in the first iteration of a 'while' 
      or a table
    - Fixed some bugs in input tag interpretation
    - Fixed a bug which occurred when Embperl encountered an input tag with value="" and %ffld=""
    - Fixed a bug in embpexec.pl that caused the options to be ignored when running offline

=head1 0.13-beta   April 26 1997

    - Moved EPENTRY (embperl_init) down to avoid crashing when compiled with
      -DEPDEBUGALL
    - Added #undefs for stdio function to compile with Perl > 5.003
      NOTE: This is a quick hack, and will be changed to use PerlIO in
      one of the next releases, so we can tie stdout of Embperl
    - Added pids (to distinguish between muliplite requests) and time to
      logfile output
    - Made many functions static and names of externals more unique to
      avoid conflicts of symbolnames with other modules
    - If file not found return status 404 instead of 500
    - Add Apache::Embperl so the module shows at CPAN also under 
      module/by-module/Apache/ as suggested by Doug MacEachern

=head1 0.12-beta not publicly released

    - The mask has been removed from namespace option so it can be used
      with safe.pm > 2
    - Embperl works with -T / PerlTaintCheck on
    - Add function MailFormTo to send form contents via email
    - The dbgSource option displays only one line for better overview
    - Fixed a bug which caused the Perl operator '<' to be interpreted 
      as an HTML tag in tables or while loops after the first iteration
    - Added ffld array for mod_perl mode to get the order of form fields
    - Removed vsnprintf since its not available on all platforms
    - Corrected handling of empty dynamic tables
    - Fixed a bug which was causing a Segmentaion Fault when the first 
      table is empty
    - Added a script for make test
    - Fixed Error with nested if
    - Log compilation errors of embedded Perl code
    - Avoid some warnings in Embperl.pm

=head1 0.11-beta      March 25 1997

    - Name changed from Embperl to HTML::Embperl!!!!!!!!
    - FORM & ENV debug output now available in all modes
    - Output from [+  +] and INPUT fields are escaped
      (e.g. < is send as &lt; )
    - Added two-dimensional tables
    - Fixed a bug which caused an endless loop when using a \ 
    - Fixed escaping of special HTML chars above ascii code 128
    - Added support for list tags (dir, menu, ol, ul, dl)
    - Added support for textarea tag
    - Fixed some errors

=head1 0.10b-beta	Jan 23 1997

    - fixed some errors

=head1 0.10beta 	Jan 18 1997

    - first public beta release



