
=head1 CVS - Access to the Embperl CVS development tree

=head2 INTRO

The Embperl development tree lives on the machine 
cvs.apache.org.  This tree contains the latest Embperl bug fixes and
developments that have not made it to CPAN yet.  Welcome to the
bleeding edge. 

=head2 SYNOPSIS

Just like CVS access to the Apache development tree, the Embperl code
pulled from CVS is not guaranteed to do anything, especially not
compile or work.  But - that's exactly why we are using CVS - so that
everyone has access the latest version and can help ensure  that
Embperl does compile and work on all platforms, with the various
versions and configurations of Perl and Apache, once it is really 
supposed to.  Patches are always
welcome. Simply testing the latest snapshots is just as (if not 
even more)
helpful. 


There are several ways to access the CVS tree:

=head2 cvsup

Cvsup has come out of the FreeBSD group. It's a client/server
beast that offers an efficient way to sync collections of files over
the net, and it is very CVS aware, allowing syncronisation of repositories
or checked out files using the CVS deltas to bring the client-side
files up to date with minimal data transfer.

For a FreeBSD cvsup client see:

http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/ports.cgi?query=cvsup&stype=all

Others (SunOS, alpha.osf, linux, Solaris2.4, HPAA 10.2, Irix)
ftp://ftp.postgresql.org/pub/CVSup/

Here's a config file for the client (cvsup) to sync Embperl sources.

 *default tag=.
 # comment out the above if you want the raw CVS files

 *default host=cvs.apache.org
 *default prefix=/path/on/this/machine/to/install/
 # an existing subdir under which embperl will appear ^^^

 *default base=/path/on/this/machine/where/cvsup/will/keep/status/info
 # you'll never need to look in the 'base' dir.

 *default release=cvs delete use-rel-suffix compress

 embperl 
 #modperl
 #apache-src
 #apache-docs
 #uncomment these three for the latest apache src, docs and/or mod_perl
 #  if you want them

=head2 anoncvs

To checkout a fresh copy from anoncvs use

cvs -d ":pserver:anoncvs@cvs.apache.org:/home/cvspublic" login

with the password "anoncvs". 

cvs -d ":pserver:anoncvs@cvs.apache.org:/home/cvspublic" co embperl


=head2 web-access

You may browse the the I<Embperl> CVS via http://cvs.apache.org/viewcvs.cgi/embperl/

=head2 from-cvs

A snapshot is rolled off the Embperl tree every 6 hours and placed
here:

http:/cvs.apache.org/snapshots/embperl/

A snapshot of the Apache development tree is also rolled every 6 hours
and placed here:

http:/cvs.apache.org/snapshots/apache-1.3/

and mod_perl can be found here

http:/cvs.apache.org/snapshots/embperl/modperl/

=head2 MAILING LIST

There is a CVS mailing list for Embperl (This is CVS - B<not> a list for asking
questions about Embperl!!!). This list receives all changes which are
commited to the CVS. If you want to know what's going on which Embperl,
you can subscribe by sending a mail to B<embperl-cvs-request@perl.apache.org>
with B<subscribe> in the body.


=head1 SEE ALSO

cvs(1)
mod_perl_cvs.pod

