
=head1 News for HTML::Embperl

=over 4

=item * 29. Mar 2001

Embperl 2.0b2 released. The main news are the support for interactive
debuggers and the possibility to use different syntaxes. 

ftp://ftp.dev.ecos.de/pub/perl/embperl/HTML-Embperl-2.0b2.tar.gz

=item * 25. Mar 2001

My talk from the 3. German Perl-Workshop (http://www.perlworkshop.de)
is available at http://www.ecos.de/ep/pod/conf/ApCon2001.Embperl.zip .
It also contains a good introduction to the new features in Embperl 2.0 . 

=item * 1. Mar 2001

I will give a talk on the ApacheCon 2001 (http://www.apachecon.com/) about 
"Embperl - Building dynamic Websites with Perl" 

=item * 13. Feb 2001

Embperl 1.3.1 released 

=item * 12. Feb 2001

New tutorial from Neil Gunton for EmbperlObject is available online. 
Also now the full documentation of DBIx::Recordset is available online 
and a new section about Tips & Tricks. Everybody is welcome to 
contribute their own Tips & Tricks!. See

perldoc IntroEmbperlObject.pod
perldoc TipsAndTricks.pod

=item * 22. Dec 2000 

After long time of talking, designing, developing, codeing and testing I am
now happy to announce the first beta of Embperl 2.0. It has a totaly
rewritten core and makes the way free for a lot of new possibilities...

At the moment it's mainly a speed improvement and introduces caching of the
(component) output. In the next releases I successively make the
possibilities of this new architecture available. (see the readme below for
some ideas what will happen).

Since it's not yet ready for production use, it's only available from my ftp
server at

ftp://ftp.dev.ecos.de/pub/perl/embperl/HTML-Embperl-2.0b1.tar.gz


=item * 4. Dec 2000 

After nearly a year of beta test, the final 1.3.0 release is out. 
Beside a lot of enhancements, EmbperlObject which allows you to
build your web site out of small reusable objects 
in a OO-style, is the main improvement since 1.2.1. 

=item * 1. Dec 2000 

The slides from my talk on the O'Reilly Open Source Software Convention are now available 
at http://www.ecos.de/embperl/index.htm/ep/pod/oscon2000/index.html .

=item * 15. Nov 2000 

Embperl 1.3b7 released 

=item * 18. Oct 2000 

Embperl 1.3b6 released 

=item * 20. Aug 2000 

Embperl 1.3b5 released 

=item * 17. July 2000 

Embperl 1.3b4 released 

=item * 22. Juni 2000

On the O'Reilly Open Source Software Convention there is again a talk about Embperl
Embperl - From Embedding Perl into HTML to Objects and XML

http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/e_sess/863

Slides are available at

http://www.ecos.de/embperl/index.htm/ep/pod/oscon2000/index.html


=item * 26. May 2000

Embperl RPMs available  

=item * 26. Apr 2000 

Embperl 1.3b3 released 

=item * 25. Apr 2000 

Perlmonth starts a new article series about Embperl 

http://www.perlmonth.com/index.html?issue=11

=item * 16. Apr 2000 

Added page about syntaxfiles for various editors  

=item * 20. Mar 2000 

Embperl now has it's own Mailinglist  

=item * 13. Mar 2000 

Tallyman is a free content management and shopping system based on Embperl  

http://sourceforge.net/projects/tallyman/

=item * 13. Mar 2000 

Apache::iNcom is a free Web E-Commerce Application Framework based on Embperl.  

http://indev.insu.com/iNcom/incom.html

=item * 11. Feb 2000 

Embperl 1.3b2 released. This release contains the new EmbperlObject which really 
simplify building a website out of small reusable pieces 


=item * 5. Jan 2000 

Embperl 1.2.1 released 

=item * 20. Dec 99 

Added Introduction to DBIx::Recordset 

=item * 4. Dec 99 

Added Page with WorldWide Mirrors 

=item * 17. Nov 99 

Embperl 1.2.0 released 

=item * 4. Nov 99 

Embperl 1.2b11 released 

=item * 7. Oct 99 

Embperl 1.2b10 released 

=item * 10. Sept 99 

Embperl 1.2b9 released 

=item * 10. Sept 99 

Embperl 1.2b9 released 

=item * 9. Sept 99 

Embperl 1.2b8 released 

=item * 8. Sept 99 

German Embperl Website is online 

=item * 30. Aug 99 

Embperl 1.2b7 released 

=item * 19. Aug 99 

Embperl 1.2b6 released 

=item * 12. Aug 99 

Article in german Unix magazine iX 9/99 about Embperl and DBIx::Recordset 

http://www.heise.de/ix/artikel/1999/09/137/

=item * May/April/June 99 

Perlmonth has a column about Embperl 

http://www.perlmonth.com/columns/backend/server_setup.html?issue=1

=item * 5. July 99 

Embperl 1.2b5 released 

=item * 1. July 99

On the O'Reilly Open Source Software Convention there are two talks about Embperl
Embperl and DBIx::Recordset -- How to Easily Build a Database Driven Web Site

http://conferences.oreilly.com/apache/conf_desc.html#c13

New Stuff: Embedding Perl 

http://conferences.oreilly.com/perl3/conf_desc.html#p21

=back


 
 
 

