=head1 NAME

HTML::Template::Extension::CSTART - Plugins for return only selected sections

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use HTML::Template::Extension;

 my $text = qq
    |
     <HTML><HEAD></HEAD><BODY>
     <H1>This is a template example...</H1>
     <TMPL_CSTART>
     This is the first line returned by template --> <TMPL_VAR NAME="param1"></TMPL_CSTART>
     This section will not be
     returned by template --> <TMPL_VAR NAME="param2">
     <TMPL_CSTART>
     This is the second line returned by template --> <TMPL_VAR NAME="param3">
     </TMPL_CSTART>
     </BODY></HTML>
    |;

 my $comp       = new HTML::Template::Extension(
                                            scalarref => \$text,
                                            plugins=>["CSTART"],
                                            );

 $comp->param('param1' => "Line 1");
 $comp->param('param3' => "Line 2");

 print $comp->output;

 #   OUTPUT:
 #
 #   This is the first line returned by template --> Line 1
 #   This is the second line returned by template --> Line 2

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This plugin add to standard syntax a tag <TMPL_CSTART>...</TMPL_CSTART> to
select sections that will be returned by "output" and "html" method.

All text outside this tag (if present) will be deleted. If this tag is not
all text will be returned also if module is loaded.

There could be more TMPL_CSTART sections. Only text between these will be
returned.

Don't use this plugins for extracting body from html files

 <HTML>
 	<HEAD>
 	</HEAD>
 	<BODY>
 		<TMPL_CSTART>
 		...
 		</TMPL_CSTART>
 	</BODY>
 </HTML>

but take a look to HTML::Template::Extension::HEAD_BODY that do this by default
and have some added values.

There is an internal parameter for the class costructor 'ecp_compatibility_mode'
This is used by me because i've an old project called 'ecp' that use a different
syntax to delimitate sections. This syntax use html comment. If this 
costructor parameter is set to 1 the traslation with standard plugin CSTART 
syntax is

 <!-- CSTART -->  is mapped to <TMPL_CSTART>

 <!-- CEND --> is mapped to </TMPL_CSTART>

=head1 AUTHOR

Bruni Emiliano, <info@ebruni.it>

=head1 SEE ALSO

 HTML::Template
 HTML::Template::Extension::DO_NOTHING
 HTML::Template::Extension::SLASH_VAR
 HTML::Template::Extension::CSTART
 HTML::Template::Extension::DOC
 HTML::Template::Extension::HEAD_BODY

=cut
