# BEGIN BPS TAGGED BLOCK {{{
# COPYRIGHT:
# 
# This software is Copyright (c) 2003-2008 Best Practical Solutions, LLC
#                                          <clkao@bestpractical.com>
# 
# (Except where explicitly superseded by other copyright notices)
# 
# 
# LICENSE:
# 
# 
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
# modify it under the terms of either:
# 
#   a) Version 2 of the GNU General Public License.  You should have
#      received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this
#      program.  If not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
#      Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 or visit
#      their web page on the internet at
#      http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html.
# 
#   b) Version 1 of Perl's "Artistic License".  You should have received
#      a copy of the Artistic License with this package, in the file
#      named "ARTISTIC".  The license is also available at
#      http://opensource.org/licenses/artistic-license.php.
# 
# This work is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
# WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
# General Public License for more details.
# 
# CONTRIBUTION SUBMISSION POLICY:
# 
# (The following paragraph is not intended to limit the rights granted
# to you to modify and distribute this software under the terms of the
# GNU General Public License and is only of importance to you if you
# choose to contribute your changes and enhancements to the community
# by submitting them to Best Practical Solutions, LLC.)
# 
# By intentionally submitting any modifications, corrections or
# derivatives to this work, or any other work intended for use with SVK,
# to Best Practical Solutions, LLC, you confirm that you are the
# copyright holder for those contributions and you grant Best Practical
# Solutions, LLC a nonexclusive, worldwide, irrevocable, royalty-free,
# perpetual, license to use, copy, create derivative works based on
# those contributions, and sublicense and distribute those contributions
# and any derivatives thereof.
# 
# END BPS TAGGED BLOCK }}}
=head1 NAME

SVK::Help::View - Introduction to svk view support

=head1 DESCRIPTION

[Views are a BETA-quality feature. We're very interested in bug reports 
and feeback about them.]

svk allows you to define multiple different I<view>s for an existing
repository.

=head2 DEFINING A VIEW

views are stored as property C<svk:view:NAME> on a directory.  Suppose
you have C<svk:view:ptest> set on C<//project>, you can refer to it by
C<//^project/ptest>.  That is, a caret, and then path holding the
property, a slash, and the name of the view.

You can now use C<//^project/ptest> as a target for normal svk commands
like ls, checkout and diff.

Here is an example for the value of the property:

 &:/project/trunk
 -*
 dir1  dir1
 util  src/deep/util

The first line is the base of the view.  The C<&:> sign means the root
of a mirror, so the view can still be used even if other people
mirrored the repository to a different path in their local repository.

The second line means taking out all the content under the root.  And
then take C<dir1> back, stick the directory C<src/deep/util> to
C<util> under the view.  So running C<svk ls //^project/ptest> you
should see:

 dir1/
 util/

=cut

1;
