
=pod

=head1 NAME 

Data::Generate - Create various types of synthetic data by parsing 
"regex-like" data creation rules. 

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.02

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Data::Generate;
 #----------------------------------------#
 #                 Example 1              #
 #----------------------------------------# 

 # Output type is varchar with maxlength 2. 
 # Output data should be letters from q to z.
 my $input_rule = q { VC(2) [q-z]}; 

 # parse the rule and return a generator object if rule is valid.
 my $generator= Data::Generate::parse($input_rule) or die "error".$!;

 # prints the maximal number of unique data that can be generated.
 print $generator->get_degrees_of_freedom(); 

 # create a dataset on the fly and return it in an array of scalars.
 my $Data= $generator->get_unique_data(10); 
 # --> $Data contains ['q','r','s','t','u','v','w','x','y','z']; 

 #----------------------------------------#
 #                 Example 2              #
 #----------------------------------------#

 # ... a more complex example ...
 # generate varchar data with 2 kinds of values:
 #   -> 36% values like ( 12222,15222, ...)
 #   -> 64% values like (AAXQ,BAXQ,...) 
 my $input_rule = q { 
     VC(24) [14][2579]{4}       (36%) 
            | [A-G]{2}[X-Z][QN] (64%)  
    };

 my $generator= Data::Generate::parse($input_rule);
 my $Data= $generator->get_unique_data(10); 
 ...


 #----------------------------------------#
 #                 Example 3              #
 #----------------------------------------#

 # ... an example with dates ...
 # generate a range of dates:
 my $input_rule = q { 
     DATE '1999' 'nov' [07,thu-fri] '09' : '09' : '09'  
 };
 my $generator= Data::Generate::parse($input_rule);
 my $Data= $generator->get_unique_data(10); 
 #   -> returns a set of date values (format 'YYYYMMDD HH:MI:SS') 
 #      corresponding to  the 7th and all Thursdays and Fridays 
 #      of November 1999.    

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=over 

=item B<parse(rules)> 

  Parse given data generation rules and load them into a Data::Generate object.
  Return either an error or a Data::Generate object.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=over 

=item B<$self-E<gt>get_degrees_of_freedom()> 

  Return an integer scalar containig the maximal number of unique values 
  that can be produced from the current Data::Generate object.  

=item B<$self-E<gt>get_unique_data(nr_of_values)> 

  Return an array of unique values with "nr_of_values" elements.
  Issue a warning and produce only $self->get_degrees_of_freedom() values
  if nr_of_values > $self->get_degrees_of_freedom(). 

=back


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module generates data by parsing given text statements 
(B<data creation rules>). These statements are flexible and powerful 
C<regex-like> way to control the production of synthetic data. Think about a 
program that instead of selecting data which matches a regex filter expression, 
produces it. For example, from the rule [a-c], the generator would produce 
the array a,b,c. 
The module works as following:

=over

=item B<Specify data creation rules.> 

my $generator= Data::Generate::parse('VC(24) [0-9][2-3]');

At this step first you define one kind of output datatype (for ex. VC(24)= 
"output is a string with max length 24") and then with the rest of the expression 
define what it should look like.
If parsing is successful a Data Generator object is instantiated. 

=item B<Get data > 

my $Data= $generator->get_unique_data(10);

To really get the data, users must call the C<get_unique_data> method by 
indicating the desired number of output values. The generator returns 
the values contained in an array reference. Please remark that B<output format 
is fixed> according to the data type.

=back

=head1 DESIGN CONCEPTS

This module has been designed so that the returned output 
array fulfills the following characteristics by efficient memory usage 
(i.e. no internal generation of output values before knowing the number of rows 
that should be produced). These are:

=over

=item B<Uniqueness> The returned output array should be composed of the unique 
values (so that it can for example be used to fill a primary key of a table).

=item B<Defined cardinality>. Given a set of data generation rules, the maximal 
number of rows should be predictable in advance, so that for ex., when 
generated values are dependent from each other (see for ex. foreign key 
dependency in databases), one can predict the cardinality without getting all 
values before.

=item B<Flat random data distribution>  Distrubution of output values should be
flat over all possibilities, despite the existence of any internal structure. 

=item B<Data distribution accuracy>  When you have a data generation statement 
with multiple rules, relative weight between the rules should be (as far as 
possible) respected (see example 2 above). 

=back

To achieve this, during rule parsing, the module resolves each 
term internally to a list which contains all possible matching values.
For example if it has to parse the expression:

 ...[A-C] [1-9]... 

the program expands and keeps in memory the two separate value lists:

 (A,B,C) and (1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9).

If data has to be produced, the generator randomly picks up an element 
from each list and it produces the output value by concatenating 
all chosen elements together (as a kind of cross product).
For example, when asked to produce 4 values based on the expression [A-C] [1-9], 
the generator goes through the two lists (A,B,C) 
and (1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9) and it produces the output by picking up  random 
combinations (ex. 'B5', 'A1','C7' and 'A2').

B<ERROR HANDLING>

Uniqueness and other characteristics of the data can sometimes be broken 
very easily by accidental erros in user's statements. 
Consider for example the expression below (integer type).

 ...[0-1] [0,10] ... 

In this case, if a string type would be used, we could get the values: 

 '00','10','110','010'

however, if a numeric type is used, we only get the values:

 0,10,110

this is because the program recognizes 010 and 10 as equivalent in respect
to integers and removes automatically 010 from the output values. 
Users not aware of this behaviour are likely to overestimate the maximal 
number of available unique data. 
To prevent this kind of errors, the program checks user entries against 
boundary constraints (uniqueness, cardinality, etc.) and tries to fix
these problems by himself (it generates however a warning to inform the user).


=head1 BASIC SYNTAX


B<BASIC SYNTAX, TYPE DECLARATION>

The high-level syntax of data creation rules is the combination of 
following elements: 

B<STATEMENT: TYPE DECLARATION  RULE [WEIGTH] [| RULE [WEIGTH] ...] ; > 

With the B<type declaration> you fix the kind of datatype (string,varchar,
integer,date or float) that should be produced. The general form above 
is preserved for all types, however each type has its own specific syntax rules. 
The (type dependent) data output format is always fixed. We'll  
come back to these types more in details later.

B<RULES>

The next element, the data creation B<rules> is the combination of one or 
more B<terms>. White spaces are used as separators between terms:

B<RULE: TERM [ TERM ...]  > 

Term expressions are the lowest level syntax elements. This can be a direct 
literal value (see for example later quoted string expressions), or a range of
values. When the program generates the output, it concatenates all term 
expressions of a rule together (like a kind of AND operation).


With the pipe (B<|>) operator you can assign multiple rules to the same 
output result. The generator in this case, produces the output values 
by alternatively applying the assigned rules (like a kind of OR operation).   
In addition you can pass a B<weigth> parameter 
(syntax: B<(<percent_valueE<gt>%)>), to control how much one or the other rule 
should be used to produce output data.For example, the statement:

  'VARCHAR(2)[0-9](15.5%)|[A-Z](84.5%);' 

produces a data distribution with about 15% of the values as numbers 
between 0 and 9 and the rest as the letters from A to Z. 

B<TERM EXPRESSIONS>

Term expressions are in general datatype dependent, however some 
basic elements are common to several types. These are:

=over 

=item B<File lists>. Syntax: B<'<'file_path'E<gt>'> 

File lists can be used for all datatypes. With this statement you let 
the program load a file as a list of values.In this case the program goes 
through all file records and takes those which match the given datatype.


=item B<Ranges>. Syntax: B<{ '['low-high']'
| '['low..high']' | '['value1,value2,value3']' | ... etc .}>   

Range expressions are quick and powerful way to generate a list of values.
For string types in particular, the syntax is similar to regular expressions
as shown in examples below:

  ...[A-C]...

returns the characters 'A','B','C' 

  ...[Ace]...

returns the characters 'A','c','e' 

  ...[^A-Z]...

returns anything (B<^> operator) except all uppercase characters. 
See leter for an exact description of range syntax for each type.

=item B<Literals>. Syntax: B<'value'>

Here the program just takes the quoted string and concatenates to the other 
terms. Literal values are very useful if you need to pre- or postfix the 
generated values with some predetermined character sequence.Example:

  ...'0x' [A-C]...

returns the values '0xA','0xB','0xC' 

=item B<Additional Elements, Quantifiers>.Syntax: B<TERM '{'nr of repetitions'}'> 

For many kinds of terms you can give a repetition parameter (<quantifier>).
In this case the term expression is repeated according to the quantifier.
Altough this concept is borrowed from regular expression, 
here the quantifier is fixed and has to be an unsigned integer number.
Quantifiers can be very practical as following example shows:

  ...[0-1]{8}...

returns the binary representation of numbers from 0 to 256. 


For some datatypes (strings) you can use quantifiers for all kinds of terms, 
also including the lists but for others you cannot. We'll now describe
the syntax rules of each type in depth.


=back 


=head1 STRING TYPE SYNTAX. 

B<STATEMENT: 'STRING'  strrule [weigth] [| strrule [weigth] ...];> 

B<strrule: strterm ['{'quantifier'}'] [ strterm ['{'quantifier'}'] ...]> 

B<strterm: { integer | literal | range | filelist}> 

String types allow the most flexibility in the combination of terms
(for each term type you can use quantifiers). In addition
no fixed length is required (no type length checking).
Here the detailed description of all string terms: 

=over 

=item B<Integer>. Syntax: B<'['number1..number2']' ['{'quantifier'}']>. 

This expression is a kind of specialized range term and it returns 
a range of consecutive numbers between number1 and number2 
(with optional quantifier) For example: 

 STRING [9..11]{2} 

returns the numeric strings '99','910','911','109','1010','1011','119'
,'1110','1111'

=item B<Literals>. Syntax: B<'value' ['{'quantifier'}']>.

The quoted string is just taken over and concatenated to the other terms.  

=item B<Ranges>. Syntax: ... see regex syntax for '[' ... ']' expressions.

As stated before the syntax of these expressions in string content is very close 
to regex syntax. There are however following differences:

  1.Quantifers must be a unsigned integer value. For ex. [0-1]{12} 
  is allowed but [0-1]{1..12} is forbidden.

  2.You cannot use character classes (\d,\D,\w,\W,etc).


See also examples at the end of the string type section.


=item B<Filelists>. Syntax: B<'<'file_path'E<gt>'>.

File records are loaded without special checks, quantifiers allowed. 


=back

I<Examples>:

  my $generator=parse(q{STRING [0-1] 'AX'{2}});
  print $generator->get_unique_data(2);
  # ...returns '0AXAX', '1AXAX'.

  my $generator=parse(q{STRING [AB1-2]{2}});
  print $generator->get_unique_data(8);
  # ...returns 'AA','AB','A1','A2','BA',... 

  my $generator=parse(q{ <./family_name> <./first_name> });
  print $generator->get_unique_data(10);
  # ...combines two lists togehter   


=head1 VARCHAR TYPE SYNTAX. 

B<STATEMENT: { 'VARCHAR'|'VARCHAR2'|'VC'} '('length')' strrule [weigth] [| strrule [weigth] ...];>

Varchar types have the same syntax as string types, except in the declaration,
where they require a B<maxlength parameter>.The maxlength parameter works in 
the following way:

  At runtime the program checks if the output string becomes longer than 
  the maxlength. If that is the case, then the program cuts the last 
  part of the string and generates a warning.  

I<Example>:

  my $generator=parse(q{VC(4) [0-1]{5}});
  print $generator->get_unique_data(4);
  # ...returns '0000', '0001', etc. instead of '00000', '00001'....
  # and generates a warning due to the truncated values 

=head1 INTEGER TYPE SYNTAX. 

B<STATEMENT: 'INTEGER' '(' length ')' intrule [weigth] [| intrule [weigth] ...];> 

B<intrule: [ '+' | '-' | '+/-' ] integer-term [ '{' quantifier '}' ] [ integer-term [ '{' quantifier '}' ] ...]> 

B<integer-term: { numeric-range | numeric-literal | filelist}> 


Integer type declaration requires a length parameter.Unfortunately 
(due to the internal representation of perl integers) the B<maximal allowed 
length here is 9 digits>. 

Particularity with integers (and floats too) is the B<optional +/- sign 
at the beginning>, which controls wheter positive or negative numbers 
(or both signs) should be generated. 

Integer and all other kinds of numeric datatypes use a specialized version of 
term expressions. These are B<numeric ranges> and B<numeric literals>.
These terms have following characteristics:

B<1.Syntax>:

B<  - numeric-literals: value>.

B<  - numeric--ranges:  '[' {lowvalue '-' highvalue | value } 
       [  ',' {lowvalue '-' highvalue |   value }  ... ]']'>

B<2.Values inside numeric ranges and numeric literals must be 
     unsigned integer numbers (0,1,2,..etc).>  

B<3.Values are unquoted everywhere.>  

B<4.Values in numeric ranges must be separated by a period 
  (i.e. here for a range with the numbers 2,25 you write 
  [2,25] and not [2 25] or [225]).>


For integers you can also use filelists at term-level (see later the difference 
with float filelists). Syntax: 

B<   '<'file_path'E<gt>'['{'quantifier'}']>.

Here file data records have to be unsigned integer numbers (other records get 
discarded by the program after the file gets loaded). 

For integer datatypes, as for strings, quantifiers are allowed 
for all kinds of terms. 

B<Please remark also that, due to the numeric nature of integer types, 
superfluos leading zeros must be taken away from the output values 
(see also L<DESIGN CONCEPTS>).In addition, for positive numbers, 
the + sign is also removed from output values.> 

I<Examples>:

  my $generator=parse(q{INT (9) +/- 0 [0,3]{2} });
  print $generator->get_unique_data(7);
  # ...returns 0,3,30,33,-3,-30-33  
  # .ie. no leading zeros, no leading '+' sign 


=head1 FLOAT TYPE SYNTAX. 

B<STATEMENT: 'FLOAT' '(' length ')' { floatrule | float-filelist} [weigth] 
[| { floatrule | float-filelist}[weigth] ...];> 

B<float-filelist: '<'file_path'E<gt>'>

B<floatrule: int_part fraction_part [exponent_part]>

B<int_part: [ '+' | '-' | '+/-' ] integer-term [ '{' quantifier '}' ] [ integer-term [ '{' quantifier '}' ] ...]> 

B<integer-term: { numeric-range | numeric-literal }> 

B<fraction_part: '.'  fractterm [ '{' quantifier '}' ] [ fractterm [ '{' quantifier '}' ] ...]> 

B<fractterm: { numeric-range | numeric-literal  }> 

B<exponent_part: { 'E' [ '+' | '-' ] exponent_number > 

Floats are quite complex numeric types. You can however decompose float syntax into
these main parts:

=over

=item B<Type declaration.>Float type declaration ('FLOAT (length)' ) requires a 
length parameter.As integer types there is a limit (14 digits without sign and 
period) to the maximal length that can be used for a float number.

=item B<Leading part.>
The syntax of the leading part (which is everything on the mantissa after the 
declaration and before the decimal point) follows the syntax of  
integer datatypes with the exception that you cannot use file lists at term level. 
For the rest see the description of numeric ranges and numeric literals above and the examples below.

=item B<Fractional part.>
In the fractional part (everything on the mantissa after the decimal point) 
you can only use numeric ranges and numeric literals.
Please notice that for this kind of data the module handles zero's 
in opposite way as for integer types:

B<While in integer expressions, leading zeros required a special treatment 
(because for example 01 and 1 are the same number), in fractional expressions
we have to take care of the trailing zeros (because for example 1.010 and 1.01 are 
the same number).>

=item B<Exponent part.>
In the exponent part you can only use finite integer numbers ('E +3','E -5' ...).
This part is an optional component.See examples.  

=back

B<ADDITIONAL REMARKS ON FLOATS>

=over

=item B<File lists> Oppositely to previous datatypes,you cannot use file 
lists at term level, instead (because of the complexity of float numbers) 
you can only use them at rule level. In this case, while parsing a file,
the modules tries to convert each record into a float value or skip it 
when conversion fails. 

=item B<Output data> Before generating output, the modules tries to compact 
generated data as much as possible. That means that superflous +signs,exponents
and decimal points are eliminated from output values. 
For ex. if the number zero was entered as '-0.000 E + 14' the module returns 
just '0'.

=back

I<Examples>:

  my $generator=parse(q{ FLOAT (9) +/- [3,0]{2} . [0,5]{2}});
  print $generator->get_unique_data(10);
  # ...returns -33.55,-33.05,-33,...,-0.05,0,0.05,...,33.55

  my $generator=parse(q{ FLOAT (9)  <./float_list.txt> );
  # ...tries to load all records of the file as float values.
  # Please remark here the monolithic syntax (file lists at rule level): 
  #   no leading +/- sign, no trailing exponent, no decimal point. 

  my $generator=parse(q{ FLOAT (9) - 1  . [1,2] (50%)| + 3  . 0 [0,6] (50%)});
  print $generator->get_unique_data(4);
  # ...returns -1.2,-1.1,3,3.06



=head1 DATE TYPE SYNTAX

B<STATEMENT: 'DATE' ['(' precision ')'] { daterule | date-filelist} [weigth] 
[| { daterule | date-filelist}[weigth] ...];> 

B<date-filelist: '<'file_path'E<gt>'>

B<daterule: date-part [ time-part ['.' time-fraction-part] ] >

B<date_part: year-term month-term day-term >

B<year-term: { numeric-range | numeric-literal  }> 

B<month-term: { month-range | month-value  }> 


B<month-range:  '[' {month-lowvalue '-' month-highvalue | month-value } 
       [  ',' {month-lowvalue '-' month-highvalue | month-value  }  ... ]']'>


B<month-(low,high)value: { "a number between 1 and 12" | "any valid literal 
expression for a month (ex. 'jan' for january)" }>


B<day-term: { day-range | day-literal  }> 

B<day-range:  '[' {day-lowvalue '-' day-highvalue | day-value } 
       [  ',' {day-lowvalue '-' day-highvalue | day-value  }  ... ]']'>

B<day-(low,high)value: { "a number between 1 and 31" | "any valid literal 
expression for a weekday (ex. 'sat' for saturday)" }>


B<time-part: hour-term ':'  minute-term ':' second-term >


B<hour-term: { numeric-range | numeric-literal  }> 

B<minute-term: { numeric-range | numeric-literal  }> 

B<second-term: { numeric-range | numeric-literal  }> 


B<time-fraction-part: '.'  fraction [ '{' quantifier '}' ] [ fraction 
[ '{' quantifier '}' ] ...]> 

B<fraction: { numeric-range | numeric-literal  }> 

Dates are the most complex datatypes, because they are built up by several components.
Dates have following basic characteristics:


=over 


=item * Structure: Date datatypes are composed of a mandatory date portion and an optional 
time portion. Further, you can also give an extra fractional part to the time portion  
(fractions of second). 

=item * Precision: If you want to use fractions of seconds, you must give the 
precision of the fractional part in the declaration. Here you can use  
a maximal precision of 14 decimal digit positions. 

=item * Quantifiers: in date syntax, repeat expressions (i.e. quantifiers) are forbidden 
everywhere except for the time fractional part. This because it is difficult and
not practical to implement quantifiers in such a composite datatype.

=item * External dependencies: This modules parses and calculate date values with the aid of 
following external libraries:

    -Date::Parse
    -Date::DayOfWeek

=item * Output format: Date output values are always generated according to 
the format:

  YYYYMMDD HH24:MI:SS.FRACTION

where the first part (until seconds) is always fixed, and the fractional part
is printed out in '9999' format according to the precision parameter.


=item * Years: year values have to be given as 4-digit unsigned integers.
Accepted range: 

  1970-2037   (Unix 32 bit date)

=item * Months: month values can be given as a number between 1 and 12 or as 
month literal value (like jan for january).

=item * Days: day values can be given as a number between 1 and 31 or as 
a day of the week (like sat for saturday). 

=item * Date check: At parse time the module checks all valid combinations 
of year,month and day values and it stores them internally.
If no combination is avaliable (like the combination between 31 and february)
the modules generates a warning.

=item * Date File lists: As for float values dates have to be given 
as a whole date expression in file lists. Please remark here that, 
thanks to the Date::Parse library, you can give date records using several formats. 
See the Date::Parse library itself for more details about accepted formats.

=item * Hour, minute and second term: here you have to use numeric values in the 
ranges of the given time unit:

 - hours:    a number from 0 to 23. 
 - minutes:  a number from 0 to 59. 
 - seconds:  a number from 0 to 59. 

=back



I<Examples>:

  my $generator=parse(q{ 
      DATE [1985-1986][01-3][2-4] [11-15] : [11-15] : [11-15] (50%) |
        '1998' [01-03,08-09]  [07-15,22] '11' : '12' : '24' (25%) |
       [2001,2006][09,nov][07,mon,thu-fri] '09' : '09' : '09' (25%) });

  print $generator->get_unique_data(...);
  # ... returns three different datasets with 1/2 having the dates 1985-1986, 
  # ... 1/4 for the year 1998 and 1/4 for the years 2001 and 2006.


=head1 INTERNAL METHODS

Here a list of the internal methods of the module.
These methods are not supposed to be called by the user.

=over

=item - add_term_range

=item - add_value_column

=item - add_weekday_term_range

=item - bind_actual_vchain

=item - bind_actual_vcol

=item - bind_vchain

=item - bind_vcol_literal

=item - bind_vcol_range

=item - calculate_degrees_of_freedom

=item - calculate_occupation_levels

=item - calculate_vchain_list_degrees_of_freedom

=item - calculate_vchain_list_weigth

=item - calculate_weigth

=item - check_input_card

=item - check_input_limits

=item - check_range_order

=item - check_reverse_flag

=item - fisher_yates_shuffle

=item - get_value_column_reverse

=item - is_valid

=item - map_vchain_indexes

=item - merge_vchain_float_lists

=item - new

=item - load_parser

=item - reset_actual_vchain

=item - reset_actual_vcol

=item - set_occupation_ratio

=item - vchain_date_fraction_process

=item - vchain_float_process

=item - vchain_fraction_process

=item - vchain_integer_process

=item - vchain_number_reprocess

=item - vcol_chain

=item - vcol_date_process

=item - vcol_file_process

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

Please install following libraries previous running this module:

=over

=item - Parse::RecDescent

=item - Date::Parse

=item - Date::DayOfWeek

=back


=head1 TODO

=over

=item - Integration of more datatypes (Bigint,etc).

=item - Integration of character classes (\w,\d, etc).

=item - Better descriptions for warnings and fatal errors. 

=item - Create a method get_nonunique_data . 

=back


=head1 BUGS

=over

=item - Special characters ("\n",etc.) are not always handled correctly.

=item - When using numeric files lists in combination with numeric types, 
not-numbers  (ex 'A') are converted to 0. It would be better if they were 
skipped.

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

When multiple rules are used (ex ... [14] (36%)|[1-2](64%) ... ) 
duplicates are only detected at the end, just before output creation.
This effect may lead to wrong cardinality and to wrong data distributions.
When this happens the program generates a warning.

=head1 HISTORY

=over

=item - 0.01 Initial version

=item - 0.02 Correct bug in calculation of degrees of freedom 

=back


=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

 Many thanks to Slawa Kopytek <skopytek@gmail.com> who had the patience to 
 read and correct my 'swiss-italian' english documentation.

=head1 AUTHOR

 Davide Conti <daconti.mail@gmail.com>

 Copyright (C) 2006 Davide Conti <daconti.mail@gmail.com>
 All rights reserved.

 You may distribute this package 
 under the terms of the Artistic License.

 No WARRANTY whatsoever.
