# PODNAME: Zapp::Guides
# ABSTRACT: Introducing Zapp

__END__

=pod

=head1 NAME

Zapp::Guides - Introducing Zapp

=head1 VERSION

version 0.004

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Zapp is a graphical workflow builder. Zapp provides a UI for building
parameterized workflows (plans), and provides a UI for end-users to run
those jobs and see the results.

=head2 Project Goals

=head3 Consumer Friendliness

The user that is running plans and examining results should have an intuitive, safe
experience. An untrained user should be able to run plans to perform the tasks they
need.

=head3 Planning Flexibility

Analysts or domain experts should be able to start building plans with
minimal training. L<Formulas|Zapp::Formula> resemble Microsoft Excel,
a well-known, commonly-used development environment.

=head3 Developer Power

Developers should have the power to L<create new tasks|Zapp::Task> that
can be added to plans, as well as L<custom types|Zapp::Type> to handle
user input, and L<triggers|Zapp::Trigger> (future development) which
can automatically run jobs. Specialized job types can L<ask for input
from a user|Zapp::Task::Action>.

=head3 Automation Magic

Analysts should be able to configure automations (using L<triggers|Zapp::Trigger>)
which respond to events from other applications (like Slack, JIRA, or BitBucket).
This can be used for L<release approval workflows|Zapp::Task::Action::Confirm>
or continuous integration (CI) jobs (future development).

=head3 Task Transparency

Scheduled jobs and maintenance tasks keep the business running. Zapp can
provide users with a view of which tasks run, when they run, and what
they did. Jobs can be stopped and started if necessary. When a job
fails, the user can choose to restart it from a particular point.

Runbooks are documentation for common operations tasks. Zapp's goal is
to turn that documentation into automation. Even extraordinary
operations tasks should be safe operations tasks: Reviews and approval
processes take time, and time is critical when the application is down.

=head1 GETTING STARTED

=head2 Web Application

To run the Zapp web application, use the C<zapp daemon> command:

    $ zapp daemon
    Web application available at http://127.0.0.1:3000

=head2 Job Runner

To run the job runner, use the C<zapp minion worker> command:

    $ zapp minion worker

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::Minion::Admin>

=head1 AUTHOR

Doug Bell <preaction@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2021 by Doug Bell.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
