


=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Lingua::EN::PluralToSingular - change an English plural to a singular

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    
    use Lingua::EN::PluralToSingular qw/to_singular is_plural/;
    my @words = qw/knives sheep dog dogs cannabis/;
    for my $word (@words) {
        if (is_plural ($word)) {
            my $sing = to_singular ($word);
            print "The singular of '$word' is '$sing'.\n";
        }
        else {
            print "'", ucfirst ($word), "' is not plural.\n";
        }
    }


produces output

    The singular of 'knives' is 'knife'.
    The singular of 'sheep' is 'sheep'.
    'Dog' is not plural.
    The singular of 'dogs' is 'dog'.
    'Cannabis' is not plural.


(This example is included as L<F<synopsis.pl>|https://fastapi.metacpan.org/source/BKB/JSON-Parse-0.21/examples/synopsis.pl> in the distribution.)

    
=head1 VERSION

This documents Lingua::EN::PluralToSingular version 0.21
corresponding to git commit L<2d53254eeaec8d2006655f63f61b4f6868e81153|https://github.com/benkasminbullock/Lingua-EN-PluralToSingular/commit/2d53254eeaec8d2006655f63f61b4f6868e81153> released on Thu Jun 21 17:48:56 2018 +0900.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This converts words denoting a plural in the English language into
words denoting a singular noun.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 to_singular

    my $singular = to_singular ($word);

Convert C<$word> into its singular form. For example,

    to_singular ('cats')

returns 'cat'. If the word is unknown or does not seem to be
plural, C<to_singular> returns the word itself, so

    to_singular ('battlehorn');

returns 'battlehorn'.

=head2 is_plural

    if (is_plural ($word)) {
        print "There are too many $word here.\n";
    }
    else {
        print "There is a $word here.\n";
    }

Returns 1 if the word is a valid plural, 0 if not. It also returns 1
for ambiguous words like "sheep".

=head1 LIMITATIONS AND CAVEATS

=head2 Assumes the input is a noun

L</to_singular> assumes its input is a noun. For example, "lives" may
be the plural of "life", or the verb "live", as in "he lives". The
routine assumes a noun and converts to "life".

=head2 Distinguishes lower and upper case

It does not deal with capitalized words. If the input word may be
capitalized, or if its initial letter may be capitalized, the user
must preprocess it to put it into the normal case. So, for example,

    to_singular ('FLIES');

returns 'FLIES' and

    to_singular ('Wolves');

returns 'Wolve'. Similarly,

    to_singular ('Charles');

returns 'Charles', but 

    to_singular ('charles');

returns 'charle', since the exception only applies if the word is
capitalized.

=head2 Does not handle pronouns

The module does not attempt to handle pronoun forms like "ourselves"
or "themselves". These words are left unaltered.

=head2 False plurals also accepted

For the sake of user convenience, false plurals like "octopi" are also
accepted by the module. (The plural of "octopus" is "octopuses".)

=head2 Not all exceptional plurals are included

There are many exceptions which have not been included, notably words
with Latin or Greek plurals.

=head1 STANDALONE SCRIPT

The script F<scripts/singular> provides a quick way to get singular
versions of nouns:

    singular cats dogs geese
    # Prints "cat dog goose".

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item Lingua::EN::Inflect

L<Lingua::EN::Inflect> by Damian Conway converts English singular
nouns to plurals, but not vice-versa.

=item Lingua::EN::Inflect::Number

L<Lingua::EN::Inflect::Number> is supposed to do the same thing as
this module. However, as of the time of writing (version 1.12) it's
actually based on the third-person verb handling of
Lingua::EN::Inflect, in other words it takes a verb in the "he says"
form and converts it into "say". Thus you get bugs like
L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=64564> where the
reporter demonstrates that 'to_S incorrectly renders the singular of
"statuses" as "statuse."'

=back

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Thanks to Xan Charbonnet and H2CHANG for various additions and fixes.
Lisa Hare contributed support for plurals ending in i as part of the
2016 Pull Request Challenge.



=head1 AUTHOR

Ben Bullock, <bkb@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENCE

This package and associated files are copyright (C) 
2011-2018
Ben Bullock.

You can use, copy, modify and redistribute this package and associated
files under the Perl Artistic Licence or the GNU General Public
Licence.



