class 'Fl';

=pod

=head1 NAME

Fl::Event - Event Loop Related Functions

=head1 Synopsis

    use Fl qw[:event];
    # ...
    run();

=head1 Description

The C<:event> import tag brings all of these functions into your
namespace.


=head1 Functions

The following functions are exposed.

=head2 belowmouse(...)

    my $widget = Fl::belowmouse();
    Fl::belowmouse($window);

Get or set the widget below the mouse.

Setting this value is This is for highlighting buttons. It is not used to send
C<FL_PUSH> or C<FL_MOVE> directly, for several obscure reasons, but those
events typically go to this widget. This is also the first widget tried for
C<FL_SHORTCUT> events.

If you change the belowmouse widget, the previous one and all parents (that
don't contain the new widget) are sent C<FL_LEAVE> events. Changing this does
not send C<FL_ENTER> to this or any widget, because sending C<FL_ENTER> is
supposed to test if the widget wants the mouse (by it returning non-zero from
C<handle()>).

=cut

xs {name        => 'Fl::belowmouse',
    definitions => [
        {returns => 'Fl_Widget *'},
        {required => [['Fl_Widget *', 'widget']],
            c_args => 'widget->cp_ctx',
         returns => 'void'}
    ],
    export      => [qw[event]]
};

=pod

=head2 run( )

    ...
    $window->show();
    Fl::run();

As long as any windows are displayed, this calles Fl::wait() repeatedly.

When all windows are closed, it returns zero.

=cut

xs {name        => 'Fl::run',
    definitions => [{returns => 'int'}],
    export      => [qw[event]]
};

=pod

=head2 check( )

    while (!calculation_done()) {
        calculate();
        Fl::check();
        last if user_hit_abort_button();
    }

This is the same as calling C<Fl::wait(0)>.

Calling this during (for example) a long calculation process will keep the
screen up to date and the interface responsive without forking or threading.

This returns non-zero if any windws are displayed. Otherwise, zero is
returned.

=cut

xs {name        => 'Fl::check',
    definitions => [{returns => 'int'}],
    export      => [qw[event]]
};

=pod

=head2 wait(...)

    Fl::wait();
    Fl::wait(2);

Waits until 'something happens' and then returns.

Call this repeatedly to 'run' your program. You can also check what happened
each time after this returns which is quite useful for managing program state.

What this really does is call all idle callbacks, all elapsed timeouts, call
Fl::flush() to get the screen to update, and then wait some time (zero if the
are idle callbacks, the sortest of all pending timeouts, or infinity) for any
events from the user or any Fl::ad_fd() callbacks. It then handles the events
and calls the callbacks and then returns.

The return value of Fl::wait() is non-zero if there are any visible windows.

C<Fl::wait($time)> waits a maxium of C<$time> seconds. It may return much
sooner if something happens.

The return value is positive if an event or fd happens before the time
elapsed. It is zero if nothing happens (on Windows this will only return zero
if $time is zero). It is negative if an error occurs (this will happen on X11
if a signal happens).

=cut

xs {name        => 'Fl::wait',
    definitions => [{
        optional => [['double', 'time']],
        returns => 'double'
	},
	{	required => [['double', 'time']],
        returns => 'double'},
	],
    export      => [qw[event]]
};

=pod

=head2 ready()

    while (!calculation_done()) {
        calculate();
        if (Fl::ready()) {
            do_expensive_cleanup();
            Fl::check();
            last if user_hit_abort_button();
        }
    }

This is similar to C<Fl::check()> except this does not call C<Fl::flush()> or
any callbacks, which is useful if your program is in a state where such
callbacks are illegal.

This returns true if C<Fl::check()> would do anything (it will continue to
return true until you call C<Fl::check()> or C<Fl::wait()>).

=cut

xs {name        => 'Fl::ready',
    definitions => [{returns => 'int'}],
    export      => [qw[event]]
};

=pod

=head2 event( )

    my event = Fl::event();

Returns the last event that was processed.

This can be used to determine if a callback is being done in response to a
keypress, mouse click, etc.

=cut

xs {name        => 'Fl::event',
    definitions => [{returns => 'int'}],
    export      => [qw[event]]
};

# TODO:
#   - add_handler(...)
#   - add_system_handler(...)
#
#
#
# Undocumented

xs {name        => 'Fl::event_text',
    definitions => [{returns => 'const char *'}],
    export      => [qw[event]]
};

=pod

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=cut
