class 'Fl::HtmlView';
isa 'Fl::Group';
include 'FL/Fl_Help_View.H';
widget_type 'Fl_Help_View';
disabled;

=pod

=head1 NAME

Fl::HtmlView - HTML Display Widget

=head1 Description

The Fl::HtmlView widget displays HTML text. It's based on Fl_Help_View. Why
is the widget not Fl_Html_View upstream? I don't know either... Anwyay! Here
we go!

Most HTML 2.0 elements are supported, as well as a primitive implementation of
tables. GIF, JPEG, and PNG images are displayed inline.

=head2 Supported HTML Tags

=over

=item A: HREF/NAME

=item B

=item BODY: BGCOLOR/TEXT/LINK

=item BR

=item CENTER

=item CODE

=item DD

=item DL

=item DT

=item EM

=item FONT: COLOR/SIZE/FACE=(helvetica/arial/sans/times/serif/symbol/courier)

=item H1/H2/H3/H4/H5/H6

=item HEAD

=item HR

=item I

=item IMG: SRC/WIDTH/HEIGHT/ALT

=item KBD

=item LI

=item OL

=item P

=item PRE

=item STRONG

=item TABLE: TH/TD/TR/BORDER/BGCOLOR/COLSPAN/ALIGN=CENTER|RIGHT|LEFT

=item TITLE

=item TT

=item U

=item UL

=item VAR

=back

=head2 Supported Color Names

=over

=item black

=item red

=item green

=item yellow

=item blue

=item magenta

=item fuchsia

=item cyan

=item aqua

=item white

=item gray

=item grey

=item lime

=item maroon

=item navy

=item olive

=item purple

=item silver

=item teal

=back

=head2 Supported URLs

=over

=item file://

=item http://

=item ftp://

=item https://

=ipp://

=item mailto://

=item news://

=back

=head1 Methods

Fl::HtmlView inherits from Fl::Group and Fl::Widget. On top of that, it
exposes the following methods...


=head2 new(...)

    my $hv_a = Fl::HtmlView->new(0, 0, 250, 500, 'Important Stuff');
    my $hv_b = Fl::HtmlView->new(0, 0, 250, 500);

The constructor creates a new widget using the given position, size, and
label.

The destructor removes the widget.

=cut

xs {name        => 'new',
    definitions => [
            {required => [[qw[int x]], [qw[int y]], [qw[int w]], [qw[int h]]],
             optional => [['const char *', 'label', ' 0']],
             returns  => 'Fl_Help_View *'
            }
    ]
};
xs {name        => 'DESTROY',
    definitions => [{returns => 'void'}]
};
xs {name        => 'draw',
    definitions => [{returns  => 'void' }
    ]
};
xs {name        => 'handle',
    definitions => [{required => [[qw[int event]]], returns  => 'int'  }
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 clear_selection(...)

    $hv_b->clear_selection();

Removes the current text selection.

=cut

xs {name        => 'clear_selection',
    definitions => [
                    {returns => 'void'}
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 directory(...)

    $hv_b->directory();

Returns the current directory for the text in the buffer.

=cut

xs {name        => 'directory',
    definitions => [
                    {returns => 'const char *'}
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 filename(...)

    $hv_b->filename();

Returns the current filename for the text in the buffer.

=cut

xs {name        => 'filename',
    definitions => [
                    {returns => 'const char *'}
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 find(...)

    my $position = $hv_b->find('summer');
       $position = $hv_b->find('summer', $position);

Finds the specified string at starting C<$position>. Default value for
C<$position> is zero (C<0>) which would obviously start the search at the
beginning.

The return value is the matching position or C<-1> if the search string is not
found.

=cut

xs {name        => 'find',
    definitions => [
                    {   required => [['const char *', 's']],
                        optional => [[qw[int position 0]]],
                        returns  => 'int'}
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 leftline(...)

    my $position = $hv_b->leftline( );

Gets the left position in pixels.

    $hv_b->leftline( 20 );

Scrolls the text to the indicated position, given a pixel column.

If the given pixel value left is out of range, then the text is scrolled to
the left or right side of the document.

=cut

xs {name        => 'leftline',
    definitions => [
                    {   required => [[qw[int left]]],
                        returns  => 'void'},
                    {   returns  => 'int' }
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 link(...)

This method assigns a callback function to use when a link is followed or a
file is loaded (via Fl::HtmlView->load()) that requires a different file or
path.

The callback function receives a pointer to the Fl::HtmlView widget and the
URI or full pathname for the file in question. It must return a pathname that
can be opened as a local file or C<undef>.

The link function can be used to retrieve remote or virtual documents,
returning a temporary file that contains the actual data. If the link function
returns C<undef>, the value of the Fl::HtmlView widget will remain unchanged.

If the link callback cannot handle the URI scheme, it should return the uri
value unchanged or set the value() of the widget before returning C<undef>.

=cut

# TODO: I need a callback method for this! Quick! Before release to PAUSE!
0 &&
xs {name        => 'link',
    definitions => [
                    {   required => [['SV *', 'callback']],
                        returns  => 'void'}
    ]
};

xs {name        => 'value',
    definitions => [
                    {   required => [['const char *', 'html']],
                        returns  => 'void'}
    ]
};


=pod

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=cut
