class 'Fl::Input';
isa 'Fl::Widget';
include 'FL/Fl_Input.H';

=pod

=head1 NAME

Fl::Input - Text Input Widget

=head1 Synopsis

    use Fl;
    my $input = Fl::Input->new(0, 0, 100, 200, 'Hello, World!');

=head1 Description

The Fl::Input class represents a widget that displays a single line of text
and lets the user edit it.

Normally it is drawn with an inset box and a white background. The text may
contain any characters, and will correctly display any UTF text, using ^X
notation for unprintable control characters. It assumes the font can draw any
characters of the used scripts, which is true for standard fonts under
MSWindows and Mac OS X. Characters can be input using the keyboard or the
character palette/map. Character composition is done using dead keys and/or a
compose key as defined by the operating system.

=begin html

=head2 Keyboard and Mouse Bindings

<table  width="90%" border="1" summary="Fl::Input keyboard and mouse bindings.">
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP" width="1%"><b>Mouse button 1</b> </td><td>Moves the cursor to this point. Drag selects characters. Double click selects words. Triple click selects all line. Shift+click extends the selection. When you select text it is automatically copied to the selection buffer. </td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b>Mouse button 2</b> </td><td>Insert the selection buffer at the point clicked. You can also select a region and replace it with the selection buffer by selecting the region with mouse button 2. </td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b>Mouse button 3</b> </td><td>Currently acts like button 1. </td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b>Backspace</b> </td><td>Deletes one character to the left, or deletes the selected region. </td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b>Delete</b> </td><td>Deletes one character to the right, or deletes the selected region. Combine with Shift for equivalent of ^X (copy+cut). </td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b>Enter</b> </td><td>May cause the callback, see <a class="el" href="classFl__Widget.html#ab194069add839e0aecbc541017c8d383" title="Returns the conditions under which the callback is called. ">when()</a>. </td></tr>
</table>
<table  width="90%" border="1" summary="Fl::Input platform specific keyboard bindings.">
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP" width="1%"><b> Windows/Linux </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP" width="1%"><b> Mac </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><p class="starttd"><b> Function </b></p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> ^A </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Command-A </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Selects all text in the widget.</b></p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> ^C </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Command-C </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Copy the current selection to the clipboard.</b></p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> ^I </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> ^I </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Insert a tab.</b></p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> ^J </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> ^J </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Insert a Line Feed.</b> <br/>
 (Similar to literal 'Enter' character)</p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> ^L </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> ^L </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Insert a Form Feed.</b></p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> ^M </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> ^M </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Insert a Carriage Return.</b></p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> ^V,<br/>
Shift-Insert </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Command-V </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Paste the clipboard.</b> <br/>
 (Macs keyboards don't have "Insert" keys, but if they did, Shift-Insert would work)</p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> ^X,<br/>
Shift-Delete </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Command-X,<br/>
Shift-Delete </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Cut.</b> <br/>
 Copy the selection to the clipboard and delete it. (If there's no selection, Shift-Delete acts like Delete)</p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> ^Z </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Command-Z </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Undo.</b> <br/>
 This is a single-level undo mechanism, but all adjacent deletions and insertions are concatenated into a single "undo". Often this will undo a lot more than you expected.</p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Shift-^Z </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Shift-Command-Z </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Redo.</b> <br/>
 Currently same behavior as ^Z. Reserved for future multilevel undo/redo.</p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Arrow Keys </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Arrow Keys </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Standard cursor movement.</b> <br/>
 Can be combined with Shift to extend selection.</p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Home </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Command-Up,<br/>
Command-Left </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Move to start of line.</b> <br/>
 Can be combined with Shift to extend selection.</p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> End </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Command-Down,<br/>
Command-Right </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Move to end of line.</b> <br/>
 Can be combined with Shift to extend selection.</p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b>Ctrl-Home</b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b>Command-Up,<br/>
Command-PgUp,<br/>
Ctrl-Left</b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Move to top of document/field.</b> <br/>
 In single line input, moves to start of line. In multiline input, moves to start of top line. Can be combined with Shift to extend selection.</p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Ctrl-End </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Command-End,<br/>
Command-PgDn,<br/>
Ctrl-Right</b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Move to bottom of document/field.</b> <br/>
 In single line input, moves to end of line. In multiline input, moves to end of last line. Can be combined with Shift to extend selection.</p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Ctrl-Left </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Alt-Left </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Word left.</b> <br/>
 Can be combined with Shift to extend selection.</p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Ctrl-Right </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Alt-Right </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Word right.</b> <br/>
 Can be combined with Shift to extend selection.</p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Ctrl-Backspace </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Alt-Backspace </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Delete word left.</b></p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Ctrl-Delete </b> </td><td nowrap="NOWRAP"><b> Alt-Delete </b> </td><td><p class="starttd"><b>Delete word right.</b></p>
<p class="endtd"></p>
</td></tr>
</table>

=end html

=head1 Methods

Fl::Input inherits from Fl::Widget. On top of that, it exposes the following
methods...

=head2 new(...)

    my $text_a = Fl::Input->new(0, 0, 250, 500, 'Important Stuff');
    my $text_b = Fl::Input->new(0, 0, 250, 500);

The constructor creates a new widget using the given position, size, and
label.

The widget's boxtype is FL_DOWN_BOX by default.

The destructor removes the widget.

=cut

xs {name        => 'new',
    definitions => [
            {required => [[qw[int w]], [qw[int h]], [qw[int x]], [qw[int y]]],
             optional => [['const char *', 'label', '""']],
             returns  => 'Fl_Input *'
            }
    ]
};
xs {name        => 'DESTROY',
    definitions => [{returns => 'void'}]
};
xs {name        => 'draw',
    definitions => [{returns  => 'void' }
    ]
};
xs {name        => 'handle',
    definitions => [{required => [[qw[int event]]], returns  => 'int'  }
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 copy(...)

Put the current selection into the clipboard.

    my $ok = $input->copy(1); # into clipboard #1

This function copies the current selection between C<mark()> and C<position()>
into the specified clipboard. This does not replace the old clipcoard contents
if C<position()> and C<mark()> are equal.

Clipboard C<0> maps to the current text selection and clipboard C<1> maps to
the OS's cut/paste clipboard.

Returns a true value if the selection was copied sucessfully.

See also C<Fl::copy(...)>.

=cut

xs {name        => 'copy',
    definitions => [{required => [[qw[int clipboard]]],
                     returns  => 'int'
                    }
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 copy_cuts()

Copys the I<yank> buffer to the clipboard.

    $input->copy_cuts();

This method copies all the previous contiguous cuts from the undo information
to the clipboard. This functions implements the ^K shortcut key.

Returns a false value if the clipboard is unchanged.

=cut

xs {name        => 'copy_cuts',
    definitions => [{returns => 'int'}]
};

=pod

=head2 cursor_color(...)

Gets or sets the color of hte cursor.

    my $color = $input->cursor_color();
    $input->cursor_color(FL_RED);

The default color is FL_BLACK.

=cut

xs {name        => 'cursor_color',
    definitions => [{required => [['Fl_Color', 'color']],
                     returns  => 'void'
                    },
                    {returns => 'Fl_Color'}
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 cut(...)

Deletes text from the widget I<without> storing it in the clipboard.

    $input->cut();

Deletes the current selection.

    $input->cut(24);

Deletes the next I<N> bytes (here, 24) rounded to characters before or after
the cursor. Negative numbers will cut characters to the left of the cursor.

    $input->cut(20, 25);

Deletes all characters between indexs C<$a> and C<$b> (here, 20 and 25).

To use the clipboard, you may call C<copy()> first or C<copy_cuts()> after
this call.

Returns 0 if no data was cut.

=cut

xs {name        => 'cut',
    definitions => [{returns => 'int'},
                    {required => [['int', 'bytes']],
                     returns  => 'int'
                    },
                    {required => [['int', 'a'], ['int', 'b']],
                     returns => 'int'
                    }
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 index(...)

Returns the character at index <$i>.

    my $chr = $input->index(10);

Returns the UTF-8 character at C<$i> as a UTF-32/UCS-4 character code.

=cut

xs {name        => 'index',
    definitions => [{required => [['int', 'index']],
                     returns  => 'Fl_Char'
                    }
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 input_type(...)

Gets or sets the input field's type.

    my $type = $input->input_type();
    $input->input_type($type);

=cut

xs {name        => 'input_type',
    definitions => [{returns => 'int'},
                    {required => [['int', 'type']],
                     returns  => 'void'
                    }
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 Cinsert(...)>

Inserts text at the cursor position.

    $input->insert("new text!");

This function inserts the string at the cursor C<position()> and moves the new
position mark to the end of the inserted text.

=cut

xs {name        => 'insert',
    definitions => [{required => [['const char *', 'text']],
                     optional => [['int',          'length', ' 0']],
                     returns => 'int'
                    }
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 mark(...)

Gets or sets the current selection mark.

    my $m = $input->mark();
    $input->input_type($m);

When a value is provided, this behaves the same as setting C<position()>...

    $input->mark(3);
    $input->position($input->position(), 3);

...so the two above lines should have the same effect.

=cut

xs {name        => 'mark',
    definitions => [{returns => 'int'},
                    {required => [['int', 'mark']],
                     returns  => 'int'
                    }
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 maximum_size(...)

Gets or sets the maximum length of the input field in characters.

    $input->maximum_size(256);

This is different than the buffer size since one character can be more than a
single byte in UTF-8 encoding.

=cut

xs {name        => 'maximum_size',
    definitions => [{returns => 'int'},
                    {required => [['int', 'max']],
                     returns  => 'void'
                    }
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 position(...)

    my $p = $input->posiiton();

Returns the position of the text cursor as an index in the range 0..C<size()>.

    $input->position($p + 2);

Sets the curosr position and mark.

The above example is the same as callingC<position($p + 2, $p + 2)>.

    $input->position($p + 2, 10);

Sets the index for both the cursor and mark.

The input widget maintains two pointers into the string. The position is where
the cursor is. The mark is the other end of the selected text. If they are
equal then there is no selection. Changing this does not affect the clipboard.
Use C<copy()> to do that.

The return value is zero if no positions were changed.

=cut

xs {name        => 'position',
    definitions => [{returns => 'int'},
                    {required => [['int', 'position']],
                     returns  => 'int'
                    },
                    {required => [['int', 'position'], ['int', 'mark']],
                     returns => 'int'
                    }
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 readonly(...)

Gets or sets the read-only state of the input field.

    my $mod = $input->readonly();
    $input->readonly(1);

=cut

xs {name        => 'readonly',
    definitions => [{returns => 'int'},
                    {required => [['int', 'immutable']],
                     returns  => 'void'
                    }
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 replace(...)

    $input->replace($b, $e, $text);

Deletes text from C<$b> to C<$e> and inserts the new string C<$text>.

All changes to the text buffer go through this function. It deletes the region
between C<$b> and C<$e> (either one may be less or equal to the other), and
then inserts the string text at that point and moves the C<mark()> and
C<position()> to the end of the insertion. Does the callback if
C<when() & FL_WHEN_CHANGED> and there is a change.

Set C<$b> and C<$e> equal to not delete anything. Set text to C<undef> to not
insert anything.

    $input->replace($b, $e, $text, $len);

C<$len> can be zero but defaults to the length of C<$text>. Or you can be use
it to insert a portion of a string. If C<$len> is zero, C<length($text)> is
used instead.

C<$b> and C<$e> are clamped to the C<0..size()> range, so it is safe to pass
any values. C<$b>, C<$e>, and C<$len> are used as numbers of bytes (not
characters), where C<$b> and C<$e> count from 0 to C<size()> (end of buffer).

If C<$b> and/or C<$e> don't point to a valid UTF-8 character boundary, they
are adjusted to the previous (C<$b>) or the next ($C<e>) valid UTF-8 character
boundary.

If the current number of characters in the buffer minus deleted characters
plus inserted characters in text would overflow the number of allowed
characters (C<maximum_size()>), then only the first characters of the string
are inserted, so that C<maximum_size()> is not exceeded.

C<cut()> and C<insert()> are just inline functions that call C<replace()>.

=cut

xs {name        => 'replace',
    definitions => [
         {required => [['int', 'b'], ['int', 'e'], ['const char *', 'text'],],
          optional => [['int', 'ilen', ' 0']],
          returns  => 'int'
         }
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 shortcut(...)

Gets or sets the shortcut related to this widget.

=cut

xs {name        => 'shortcut',
    definitions => [{returns => 'int'},
                    {required => [['int', 's']],
                     returns  => 'void'
                    }
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 size()

Returns the number of bytes in C<value()>.

    my $len = $input->size();

=head2 size(...)

Sets the width and height of this widget.

    $input->size(250, 300);

=cut

xs {name        => 'size',
    definitions => [{required => [['int', 'w'], ['int', 'h']],
                     returns => 'void'
                    },
                    {returns => 'int'}
    ]
};

=for TODO static_value(...) would go here...

=pod

=head2 tab_nav(...)

Sets whether the Tab key does focus navigation, or inserts tab characters into
Fl::MultilineInput.

    $input->tab_nav(!!1);

By default this flag is enabled to provide the 'normal' behavior most users
expect; Tab navigates focus to the next widget. To inserting an actual Tab
character, users can use Ctrl-I or copy/paste.

Disabling this flag gives the behavior where Tab inserts a tab character into
the text field, in which case only the mouse can be used to navigate to the
next field.

=head2 tab_nav()

Gets whether the Tab key causes focus navigation in multiline input fields or
not.

    my $tab_next = $input->tab_nav();

If enabled (default), hitting Tab causes focus navigation to the next widget.

If disabled, hitting Tab inserts a tab character into the text field.

=cut

xs {name        => 'tab_nav',
    definitions => [{required => [['int', 'value']],
                     returns  => 'void'
                    },
                    {returns => 'int'}
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 textcolor(...)

    $input->textcolor(FL_BLACK);
    my $color = $input->textcolor();

Gets or sets the input's text color.

=cut

xs {name        => 'textcolor',
    definitions => [{required => [['Fl_Color', 'color']],
                     returns  => 'void'
                    },
                    {returns => 'Fl_Color'}
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 textfont(...)

    $input->textfont(FL_COURIER_BOLD);
    my $font = $input->textfont();

Gets or sets the input's font.

=cut

xs {name        => 'textfont',
    definitions => [{required => [['Fl_Font', 'font']],
                     returns  => 'void'
                    },
                    {returns => 'Fl_Font'}
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 textsize(...)

    $input->textsize(100);
    $input->textsize(FL_NORMAL_SIZE);

Sets the input's text size.

=cut

xs {name        => 'textsize',
    definitions => [{required => [['Fl_Fontsize', 'size']],
                     returns  => 'void'
                    },
                    {returns => 'Fl_Fontsize'}
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 undo()

    $input->undo();

Undoes previous changes to the text buffer.

This call undoes a number of previous calls to C<replace(...)>.

Returns a true value if any changes were made.

=cut

xs {name        => 'undo',
    definitions => [{returns => 'int'}]
};

=pod

=head2 value(...)

Gets or sets the widget's text.

    $input->value("Update!");
    my $text = $input->value();
    $input->value('Just part of this', 9);

This function changes the text and sets the mark and the point to the end of
it. The string is copied to the internal buffer. Passing C<undef> is the same
as "".

You can use the length parameter to directly set the length if you know it
already or want to put null characters in the text.

=cut

xs {name        => 'value',
    definitions => [{required =>
                         [['const char *', 'string'], ['int', 'length']],
                     returns => 'int'
                    },
                    {required => [['const char *', 'string']],
                     returns  => 'int'
                    },
                    {returns => 'const char *'}
    ]
};

=pod

=head2 wrap(...)

    $input->wrap(1);
    my $wraps = $input->wrap();

Sets or gets word wrapping state of the input field.

Word wrap is only functional with multi-line input fields such as
Fl::MultilineInput.

=cut

xs {name        => 'wrap',
    definitions => [{required => [['int', 'b']],
                     returns  => 'void'
                    },
                    {returns => 'int'}
    ]
};

=pod

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=cut
