class 'Fl::MultilineInput';
isa 'Fl::Input';
include 'FL/Fl_Multiline_Input.H';
widget_type 'Fl_Multiline_Input';

=pod

=head1 NAME

Fl::MultilineInput - Text Widget that Allows Editing of Multiline Text

=head1 Synopsis

    use Fl;
    my $input = Fl::MultilineInput->new(0, 0, 100, 200, 'Hello, World!');

=head1 Description

The Fl::MultilineInput class represents a widget that displays '\n' characters
as new lines rather than ^J, and accepts the Return, Tab, and up and down
arrow keys.

This is far from the nirvana of text editors, and is probably only good for
small bits of text, 10 lines at most. Note that this widget does not support
scrollbars or per-character color control.

If you are presenting large amounts of text and need scrollbars or full color
control of characters, you probably want Fl::TextEditor instead.

=head1 Methods

Fl::MultilineInput inherits from Fl::Input and Fl::Widget. On top of that, it
exposes the following methods...

=head2 new(...)

    my $text_a = Fl::MultilineInput->new(0, 0, 250, 500, 'Important Stuff');
    my $text_b = Fl::MultilineInput->new(0, 0, 250, 500);

The constructor creates a new widget using the given position, size, and
label.

The widget's boxtype is FL_DOWN_BOX by default.

The destructor removes the widget.

=cut

xs {name        => 'new',
    definitions => [
            {required => [[qw[int w]], [qw[int h]], [qw[int x]], [qw[int y]]],
             optional => [['const char *', 'label', '""']],
             returns  => 'Fl_Multiline_Input *'
            }
    ]
};
xs {name        => 'DESTROY',
    definitions => [{returns => 'void'}]
};
xs {name        => 'draw',
    definitions => [{returns  => 'void' }
    ]
};
xs {name        => 'handle',
    definitions => [{required => [[qw[int event]]], returns  => 'int'  }
    ]
};

=pod

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=cut
