class 'Fl::SecretInput';
isa 'Fl::Input';
include 'FL/Fl_Secret_Input.H';
widget_type 'Fl_Secret_Input';

=pod

=head1 NAME

Fl::SecretInput - Text Widget that Displays as a String of Placeholders

=head1 Synopsis

    use Fl;
    my $input = Fl::SecretInput->new(0, 0, 100, 200, 'Hello, World!');

=head1 Description

The Fl::SecretInput class represents a widget that displays its input as a
string of placeholders.

Depending on the platform this placeholder is either the asterisk ('*') or the
Unicode bullet character (U+2022).

This subclass is usually used to receive passwords and other "secret"
information.

=head1 Methods

Fl::SecretInput inherits from Fl::Input and Fl::Widget. On top of that, it
exposes the following methods...

=head2 new(...)

    my $text_a = Fl::SecretInput->new(0, 0, 250, 500, 'Important Stuff');
    my $text_b = Fl::SecretInput->new(0, 0, 250, 500);

The constructor creates a new widget using the given position, size, and
label.

The widget's boxtype is FL_DOWN_BOX by default.

The destructor removes the widget.

=cut

xs {name        => 'new',
    definitions => [
            {required => [[qw[int w]], [qw[int h]], [qw[int x]], [qw[int y]]],
             optional => [['const char *', 'label', '""']],
             returns  => 'Fl_Secret_Input *'
            }
    ]
};
xs {name        => 'DESTROY',
    definitions => [{returns => 'void'}]
};
xs {name        => 'draw',
    definitions => [{returns  => 'void' }
    ]
};
xs {name        => 'handle',
    definitions => [{required => [[qw[int event]]], returns  => 'int'  }
    ]
};

=pod

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=cut
