# make Dist::Zilla happy.
package Apache::AuthCookie::FAQ;

# ABSTRACT: Frequently Asked Questions about Apache::AuthCookie.

1;

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Apache::AuthCookie::FAQ - Frequently Asked Questions about Apache::AuthCookie.

=head1 VERSION

version 3.29

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document serves to answer the most frequently asked questions about L<Apache::AuthCookie>.

=head2 How can I protect an entire site (/) with Apache::AuthCookie?

You have to give an Apache C<require> directive that applies to all requests
for B<except> for your login handler.  The easiest way to do this is to
override the auth handlers for your login script. For example, if your login
handler is C</LOGIN>, then you need to use something like the following:

 <Location />
   AuthType My::AuthCookieHandler
   AuthName Whatever
   PerlAuthenHandler My::AuthCookieHandler->authenticate
   PerlAuthzHandler My::AuthCookieHandler->authorize
   require valid-user
 </Location>

 <Location /LOGIN>
   PerlAuthenHandler Apache2::Const::OK
   PerlAuthzHandler Apache2::Const::OK
 </Location>
 ...

=head1 SOURCE

The development version is on github at L<https://https://github.com/mschout/apache-authcookie>
and may be cloned from L<git://https://github.com/mschout/apache-authcookie.git>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website
L<https://github.com/mschout/apache-authcookie/issues>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=head1 AUTHOR

Michael Schout <mschout@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2000 by Ken Williams.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
