#
# WWW::Restaurant::Menu::Overview
#
# (C) 2004-2005 Julian Mehnle <julian@mehnle.net>
# $Id: Overview.pod,v 1.3 2005/01/15 16:04:23 julian Exp $
#
##############################################################################

=pod

=head1 NAME

WWW::Restaurant::Menu::Overview - An introduction to the WWW::Restaurant::Menu
class collection.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

WWW::Restaurant::Menu is a collection of Perl classes for querying online menus
of restaurants.

=head2 About menus and menu items

A menu class is directly or indirectly derived from B<WWW::Restaurant::Menu>
and represents a certain type of menu of a restaurant.  Each restaurant's menu
classes should be in the namespace
WWW::Restaurant::I<CC>::I<City>::I<Restaurant>::Menu, where:

=over

=item I<CC>

is the ISO 3166 "alpha 2" two-letter country code of the country where the
restaurant is located.

=item I<City>

is the name of the city where the restaurant is located.

=item I<Restaurant>

is the name of the restaurant (unique within the specified city, if possible).

=back

For example, menu classes for I<John's Pub> in I<London> would be in the
namespace WWW::Restaurant::GB::London::JohnsPub::Menu.

Every menu consists of menu items.  A menu item class is directly or indirectly
derived from B<WWW::Restaurant::Menu::Item>.

For how menu objects give access to their menu items, see
L<WWW::Restaurant::Menu>.  For how menu item objects give access to their
properties, see L<WWW::Restaurant::Menu::Item>.

=head2 Bundled menu classes

The following prepared menu classes are included with this version of
B<WWW::Restaurant::Menu> (without the common C<WWW::Restaurant::> prefix):

=over

=item I<DE::Munich::Edison::Menu::Lunch>

The lunch menu of the Munich restaurant B<Edison>, which is available at
L<http://www.edisonundco.de/mittag.htm>

=back

=head2 Bundled menu item classes

The following prepared menu item classes are included with this version of
B<WWW::Restaurant::Menu> (without the common C<WWW::Restaurant::Menu::Item::>
prefix):

=over

=item I<Starter>

=item I<Meal>

=item I<Dessert>

=item I<Drink>

=back

See L<WWW::Restaurant::Menu::Item> for more information.

=head2 Writing menu classes

Just inherit a new class from B<WWW::Restaurant::Menu>, and override the
B<currency> and B<query> methods.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<WWW::Restaurant::Menu>, L<WWW::Restaurant::Menu::Item>

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENSE

WWW::Restaurant::Menu is Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Julian Mehnle
<julian@mehnle.net>.  All rights reserved.

WWW::Restaurant::Menu is free software.  You may use, modify, and distribute it
under the same terms as Perl itself, i.e. under the GNU GPL or the Artistic
License.

=head1 AUTHOR

Julian Mehnle <julian@mehnle.net>

=cut

# vim:tw=79
