=pod

=head1 NAME

UR::Manual::Metadata - Overview of the metadata classes in UR

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use MyNamespace;
  my $class_meta = MyNamespace::SomeClass->__meta__;
  my @property_metas = $class_meta->direct_property_metas();
  my @parent_class_metas = $class_meta->ancestry_class_metas();

  my $table_obj = UR::DataSource::RDBMS::Table->get(
                  table_name => $class_meta->table_name,
              );
  my @column_objs = $table_obj->columns();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The UR system creates and uses several classes and objects to represent
information about the many classes and objects in the system - metadata.
For example, for each class, there is an object, called a class metadata
object, to represent it.  Each property in a class has metadata.  So does
the relationship between parent and child classes and relationships involved
in delegated properties.  metadata about any database schemas your namespace
knows about is also tracked and stored.

These classes define an API for introspection and reflection, a way for the
system to change itself as it runs, and methods for tracking changes and
applying those changes to files and databases.

=head1 APIs

The metadata API is divided into 5 primary parts:

=over 4

=item Defining Classes

The mechanism for defining class structure, including their properties and
relationships.  It handles creating accessor/mutator methods for you.  The
syntax for defining classes is detailed in the
L<UR::Object::Type::Initializer> page.

=item Objects Representing Classes, Properties, Relationships, etc.

UR Classes aren't just conceptual entities like a package name, they have
object instances to represent them.  For every named class, you can get a
L<UR::Object::Type> instance with that C<class_name>.  Each property defined
on that class has a L<UR::Object::Property> with a matching C<class_name>
and C<property_name> pair.  Even those basic metadata classes have class,
property and relationship metadata of their own.

=item Schema Objects

If you use the C<ur update classes> command-line tool to manage the linkage
between your database schema(s) and class structure (it's not necessary; you
can also manage it by hand), then objects will also exist to represent the
database entities.  See also L<UR::DataSource::Meta>

=over 2 

=item .
tables L<UR::DataSource::RDBMS::Table>

=item .
columns L<UR::DataSource::RDBMS::TableColumn>

=item .
Foreign key constraints L<UR::DataSource::RDBMS::FkConstraint> and
L<UR::DataSource::RDBMS::FkConstraintColumn>

=item .
Primary key constraints L<UR::DataSource::RDBMS::PkConstraintColumn>

=item .
Unique constraints L<UR::DataSource::RDBMS::UniqueConstraintColumn>

=back

=item Namespaces, Contexts and Data Sources

Namespaces (L<UR::Namespace>) collect and manage groups of related classes.
Classes can be a member of one Namespace, and in practice will live in
a subdirectory under the Namespace module's name.

Contexts (L<UR::Context>) and Data Sources (L<UR::DataSource>) provide a
filtered view of the data that is reachable through the current Namespace.

=item Index, Change, Observer and other incidentals

And then there's everything else

L<UR::Object::Index> objects are created by the system to handle get()
requests for non-ID parameters.

L<UR::Change> objects represent a change in the system during a software
transaction, such as an object's property changind value or creating a new
instance of something.

L<UR::Observer> objects manage the change subscription system, where the
application can be notified of changes through callbacks.  See also 
L<UR::Object/create_subscription>.

=back

