=head1 NAME

CHANGES - Revision history of SenseClusters

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=over

=item 1.05

Released October 3, 2015 (changes by TDP)

=over

=item

removed defined (@array) since now deprecated by Perl

=back

=item 1.03

Released June 29, 2013 (changes by TDP and AMJ)

=over 

=item 

Modify install.sh to default to Linux-x86_64 for Cluto installation (TDP)

=item

Removed various instances of if (defined %hash) in preprocess/sval2 in favor of if (%hash) - defined %hash is now deprecated - however left that in keyconvert.pl as removed caused syntax issue that should be checked out further (TDP)

=item

Fixed Testing/ALL-TESTS.sh to run all test cases by enumerating in for loop - previous method of using wild card did not seem to be running all cases (TDP)

=item

Fixed some test cases for clusterstopping in Testing - note that we still have Sun test cases included although no Sun platform to test on. Should keep those though as cluto still comes with a Sun version (TDP)

=item
  
Added the flag "ngram" for clusterlabeling.pl. It will allow user to provide the value for ngram. The features selection while creating the labels of cluster will be based on this parameter. (AMJ)
	 
=item	    	

Added --label_ngram option to discriminate.pl to support new --ngram option in clusterlabeling.pl (AMJ)
		    	
=item	    			    	

Added test cases testA6 and testA7 to test changes in clusterlabeling. (AMJ)

=item 

Updated INSTALL to mention depencies on csh and using bash as the system shell (TDP)

=back 

=item 1.01 

Released April 6, 2008 (All changes by TDP)

=over

=item 

Relaxed test conditions for svdpackout and install.sh to simply check if 
SVDPACKC is producing results.

=item

Removed diagnostic warning from mat2harbo.pl that gave guidelines on 
setting las2.h parameters. A version of las2.h is now being provided in 
/External with fairly large values pre-set, thus making these warnings 
somewhat less necessary.

=item

Changed the interpretation of the --negatives option below to mean that 
if this option is on, then any negative values in svdpackout.pl output 
will be set to zero. By default then, square root values are not taken, 
and negatives are not smoothed.

=item

Introduced --sqrt option for svdpackout.pl to request that values in S 
matrix have their square root taken before recombination. This was 
previously the default, but will not be any longer.

=item 

Updated svdpackout.pl to include the following changes, provided by 
Richard Wicentowski in November 2006 (via senseclusters-developers list)

=over 2

=item * Added feature to output the component U, S, and V' matrices.

=item * Added a new command-line option "--output" with three options:

=over 4

=item * reconstruct - reconstructs the rank-k matrix (default)

=item * rowonly - same as --rowonly

=item * components - output U, S, V' matrices to U.txt, S.txt, VT.txt

=back

=item * Added a new command-line option "--negatives": Allows negative 
values; otherwise all negative values are set to 0 (except in component output).

=item * New options maintain backward compatibility

=item * Updated the documentation.

=item * Passes all tests (testA1-A4,B1-B2)

=back

=back

=item 1.00

Released March 29, 2008 (All changes by TDP)
This is a development release, meaning that "regular" users should 
still use 0.95, our last stable release

=over

=item 

Updated SYNOPSIS examples in many of the Toolkit programs to make their 
stand alone use more clear

=item

Removed dependency on Math::BigInt, Math::BigFloat, as that has
been added to Algorithm::RandomMatrixGeneration as of 0.06 (which
is required).

=item 

Raised Text-NSP version requirement to 1.09, since there are a
few bugs in the test cases for 1.07 and below for 64 bit architectures.

=item 

Changed CPAN module prereqs to require modules that only require Perl 
5.6 or better. This relaxes SenseClusters from requiring Perl 5.8.5 to 
5.6. 

=back

=item 0.98

Released March 25, 2008 (All changes by TDP) 
This is a development release, meaning that "regular" users should 
still use 0.95, our last stable release

=over

=item 

Inserted a /t directory for 'make test'. This is just a stub to be built 
upon.

=item

Modified README.Toolkit to (hopefully) include links to source code 
documentation while displaying all the programs in a single page. This 
is intended to be our replacement for the HTML pages we no longer 
generate.

=item

Modified Makefile.PL to create man pages only of core SenseClusters
programs. Reduced the number of programs put into /bin as well, only
including core SenseClusters programs and those needed for testing.

=item

Modified /Testing script completely. Removed alltests.sh subtests.sh and 
the many normal-op.sh and error-op.sh scripts and replaced with a single 
script called ALL-TESTS.sh (using same name as NSP). Historically we've 
had some trouble with the test scripts not running due to file 
permissions and path issues, so I hope this fixes that once and for all. 
The test*.sh files in the subdirectories of /Testing are called directly 
via ALL-TESTS.sh using 'csh ./testA*.sh' after the script has changed to 
the current directory of the test script. This does not require that the 
scripts be executable and path issues are minimized. This also allows us 
to not install altests.sh and subtests.sh in /bin (which was our 
solution to path problems, but that seemed a bit extreme). 

=item

Added copyright information to .pl files in Web directory, also minimal 
perldoc.  

=item 

Added short labels to each of the programs in Toolkit, so that these 
descriptions appear in CPAN listing

=item

Removed HTML directory and support from /Docs, since we'll get nicely 
formatted documentation from CPAN. Removed /Docs, which has been 
replaced with /doc

=item 

Removed samples from /Docs for regex, stoplist, and token files, since 
those also exist in Demos

=item 

Added a directory /External that includes a modified form of the 
SVDPACKC program las2 that we use for SVD. This can be installed via a 
script External/install.sh that will also attempt to retrieve and 
install the Cluto programs scluster and vcluster.

=item 

Moved Docs/Flows to doc/Flowcharts, depricated flowchart.fig and .pdf in 
favor of more recent versions

=item

Moved INSTALL from top level to /doc and converted into pod.

=item 

Created doc directory which will be home of pod that is stored in top 
level in plain text form. /doc/update-pod.sh will be used to convert pod 
to plain text which should be considered read only. 

=item

Added stubs to /lib and /t to provide basic modular framework should we 
decided to develop modules in future

=item 

Moved current contents of Changes to /doc/Changelogs and then began a 
new file CHANGES.pod that will be used in future

=back

=item 0.96 

Released March 22, 2008 (All modifications by TDP)
This is a development release, meaning that "regular" users should 
still use 0.95, our last stable release

=over

=item 

version 0.95 uploaded to CPAN to see how indexing looked. not released 
on sourceforge or announced since strictly a development view.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

 L<TODO.pod>

=head1 AUTHORS

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth
 tpederse at d.umn.edu

This document last modified by :
$Id: CHANGES.pod,v 1.29 2015/10/03 14:05:57 tpederse Exp $

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2004-2013 Ted Pedersen

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
Texts.

Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on
the web at L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in
this distribution as FDL.txt.

=cut

