=head1 NAME

INSTALL Installation instructions for SenseClusters

=head1 SYNOPSIS

If you have su or sudo access, you should be able to install and test 
the installation of SenseClusters via automatic download from CPAN as follows:

  # install SenseClusters and all dependent CPAN modules
  perl -MCPAN -e 'install Bundle::Text::SenseClusters';

  # install cluto and SVDPACKC (included in SenseClusters)
  cd ~/.cpan/build/Text-SenseClusters-[insert_version]
  cd External
  csh ./install.sh /usr/local/bin
  cd ~

  # run SC test cases (note that location of cpan build 
  # directory might vary on your system. 

  cd ~/.cpan/build/Text-SenseClusters-[insert_version]
  cd Testing
  csh ./ALL-TESTS.sh
  cd ~

This assumes that /usr/local/bin is in your PATH and is your preferred 
location for user installed executable scripts. If it is not, substitute 
your preferred directory here.

=head1 INSTALLATION OVERVIEW

SenseClusters consists of the core SenseClusters programs 
(primarily .pl programs found in this distribution), Perl modules 
available from CPAN, and two external programs (SVDPACKC and Cluto). 
SenseClusters requires Perl 5.6.0 or better. 

SVDPACKC is distributed as C source code, and Cluto is distributed in 
binary form for Linux and Solaris. This dependence on CLUTO limits 
SenseClusters to running on Linux or Solaris. There is a Windows 
version of CLUTO available, but we have not tested how well this 
integrates into SenseClusters. 

Please note that SenseClusters uses the csh - this is an artifact of 
it originally being developed on Solaris/Sun systems (which used csh
as a default). Many Linux distributions do not include csh, so you
will want to install that if you don't already have it. On Ubuntu and
Debian systems, this can be done simply via :

 sudo apt-get install csh

Also note that the default behavior of Ubuntu distributions to use 
dash as the system shell causes some problems, so you may want to reset
this to use bash. See L<https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DashAsBinSh> for more
details. 

=head1 AUTOMATIC INSTALLATION

You may be able to download and install the SenseClusters core, dependent CPAN 
modules, and External programs via a single command using the CPAN module. 

If you have sudo or su access, then installation of the CPAN modules 
and the core SenseClusters programs can be achieved as follows: 

  perl -MCPAN -e 'install Bundle::Text::SenseClusters';

This command will install SenseClusters and all dependent CPAN modules. 
SenseClusters includes a script that will help you install the External 
code as well. You may be able to install the external programs Cluto 
and SVDPACKC via the following :

  cd ~/.cpan/build/Text-SenseClusters-[insert_version]
  cd External
  csh ./install.sh INSTALLDIR
  cd ~

If you have sudo or su access, INSTALLDIR should be a directory in your 
PATH, such as /usr/local/bin. If you do not, you will need to install 
into a directory you have read and write access to, and then include in 
your path. If install.sh fails for some reason, you will need to install 
Cluto and SVDPATH manually, as described below.

At present SenseClusters does not utilize 'make test', so testing must 
be done via scripts found in the /Testing directory. Please make certain 
to run these tests after the installation of the External programs, 
CPAN modules, and SenseClusters core has concluded.

  cd ~/.cpan/build/Text-SenseClusters-[insert_version]
  cd Testing
  csh ./ALL-TESTS.sh
  cd ~

If this automatic install does not work, you can download 
SenseClusters manually from CPAN   
L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Text-SenseClusters>
or Sourceforge L<http://senseclusters.sourceforge.net> and install as 
described in the rest of this document.

=head1 SENSECLUSTERS COMPONENTS

=head2 CPAN Modules

SenseClusters depends on a number of different CPAN modules. These are  
all included in the Bundle above, and can be installed via the Bundle  
(recommended) or individually (described below). 

=over

=item *
L<PDL> (Perl Data Language, version 2.4.1 or better)

=item *
L<Algorithm::Munkres> (version 0.07 or better)

=item *
L<Algorithm::RandomMatrixGeneration> (version 0.06 or better)

=item *
L<Bit::Vector> (version 6.3 or better)

=item *
L<Math::SparseMatrix> (version 0.02 or better)

=item *
L<Math::SparseVector> (version 0.04 or better)

=item *
L<Set::Scalar> (version 1.19 or better)

=item *
L<Text::NSP> (version 1.09 or better)

=back

=head2 EXTERNAL PACKAGES (/External)

The following packages are not written in Perl and are developed 
outside of the SenseClusters project. SVDPACKC is distributed 
as C source code, and Cluto is distributed as pre-complied binaries for 
Linux and Solaris.

Please note that SVDPACK is optional - SenseClusters will run without it 
(just don't use the --svd option). However, Cluto is mandatory, 
SenseClusters will not be able to perform clustering without it.

=over

=item *
CLUTO (version 2.1.1 or better)

=item *
SVDPACKC (Feb 2004 version or better, compiled with gcc 3.2.2, 3.2.3, or 3.3.0)

=back

=head1 MANUAL INSTALLATION OF CPAN MODULES

If the Bundle install does not succeed, you will need to install the 
following modules manually:
 
=over

=item * L<PDL> (version 2.4.1 or better)

SenseClusters uses the Perl Data Language for efficient   
computations and storage of high dimensional data structures.

It is available at: L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/PDL/>

Note that if you have supervisor access on your machine, and have the 
MCPAN Perl module available, you can install PDL automatically via:

C<perl -MCPAN -e 'install PDL';>

If you do not have supervisor access, you will need to install this
module locally. Note that you can configure the CPAN module to install 
locally by setting PREFIX and LIB options to directories you have read 
write authority over. 

Note that PDL has quite a few dependencies, and can be tricky to 
install. You may want to check with your system administrator and see
if they can install on your behalf before you tackle the local
install of PDL. All the other code mentioned here can be locally 
installed quite routinely. 

This is a good description of how to do local installs of Perl modules:
L<http://www.perl.com/pub/a/2002/04/10/mod_perl.html>

=item * L<Bit::Vector> (version 6.3 or better)

The Bit::Vector module is used with binary context vectors (via --binary 
option in wrappers or program bitsimat.pl). This can be downloaded from:

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Bit-Vector/>

 Note that the following installation instructions apply to all of the
 CPAN modules, and will not be repeated in detail for each module.

If you have supervisor access, or have configured MCPAN for local 
install, you can install via: 

C<perl -MCPAN -e 'install Bit::Vector';>

If not, you can, "manually" install by downloading the *.tar.gz file,  
unpacking, and executing the following commands. 

 perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=/space/kulka020/Bit-Vector LIB=/space/kulka020/MyPerlLib
 make
 make test
 make install

Note that the PREFIX and LIB settings are just examples to help you create 
a local install, if you do not have supervisor (su) access. 

You must include /space/kulka020/MyPerlLib in your PERL5LIB environment 
variable to access this module when running.

=item * L<Text::NSP> (version 1.09 or better)

SenseClusters uses the Ngram Statistics Package to select a variety of 
lexical features.
 
Text::NSP is available at L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Text-NSP/>

C<perl -MCPAN -e 'install Text::NSP';>

or manual installation.

=item * L<Set::Scalar> (version 1.19 or better)

It is available at:  L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Set-Scalar/>

C<perl -MCPAN -e 'install Set::Scalar';>

or manual installation.

=item * L<Math::SparseVector> (version 0.04 or better)

This is a Perl module that implements sparse vector operations. 

It is available at: L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Math-SparseVector/>

C<perl -MCPAN -e 'install Math::SparseVector';>

or manual installation. 

=item  * L<Math::SparseMatrix> (version 0.02 or better)

This is a Perl module that implements sparse matrix operations, in particular
the sparse matrix transpose operation. 

It is available at: L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Math-SparseMatrix/>

C<perl -MCPAN -e 'install Math::SparseMatrix'>;

or manual installation.

=item * L<Algorithm::Munkres> (version 0.07 or better)

This is a Perl module that implements Munkres' solution to classical
Assignment Problem. This is used when carrying out evaluation of 
discovered clusters with a provided gold standard. 

It is available at: L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Algorithm-Munkres/>

C<perl -MCPAN -e 'install Algorithm::Munkres';>

or manual installation.

=item * L<Algorithm::RandomMatrixGeneration> (version 0.06 or better)

This is a Perl module that generates random matrix given the row and 
column marginals. This is required for SenseClusters to run the Adapted
Gap Statistic in clusterstopping.pl.

It is available at: 
L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Algorithm-RandomMatrixGeneration/>

C<perl -MCPAN -e 'install Algorithm::RandomMatrixGeneration';>

or manual installation. 

=head1 MANUAL INSTALLATION OF EXTERNAL PACKAGES

Please note that we provide a modified version of SVDPACK in 
/External/SVDPACKC that makes all the changes described below. You 
should be able to compile and install this code via the 
External/install.sh script. If that fails you can follow the steps 
described in the install script manually. If for some reason you would 
prefer to start with a fresh copy of SVDPACKC, you can follow the 
directions below (which also explain the changes we have made and 
included in SenseClusters /External/SVDPACKC). 

=head2 SVDPACKC (Feb 2004 version or better)

SVDPACKC is a C program that performs SVD. It is available for download  
from L<http://www.netlib.org/svdpack>. SVDPACKC does not have a version 
number associated with it, but check the files in your download to make 
sure they are dated from at least Feb 2004. The version we include and 
modify in /External/SVDPACKC is the Feb 2004 version.

Please note that you should use version 3.2.2, 3.2.3, or 3.3.0 of the
gcc compiler. Segmentation faults results if you use version 4 or
better.  We are currently investigating the use of SVDLIBC as an 
alternative for our SVD processing. 

While installing SVDPACKC, you need to modify the following files 
(already done in /External) :  

   1. 	In las2.c, uncomment the following line 

	/*	#define  UNIX_CREAT	*/

	if you are running on a Unix or Linux platform.

   2. 	In las2.h, modify the default values of constants LMTNW, NMAX and  
	NZMAX to some larger numbers such that -

	NMAX 	= Maximum size of the feature space before reduction 
		  (we set this to 30,000)
	NZMAX 	= Maximum possible number of Non-zero entries 
		  (we assume our 30,000 x 30,000 matrix is at most 1% dense
		  and hence NZMAX = 30,000 x 30,000 / 100 = 9,000,000)
	LMTNW 	= Maximum Work Space Area required 
		= 6*NMAX + 4*NMAX + 1 + NMAX*NMAX
		  (we set LMTNW = 900300001 for a 
		  1% dense 30,000 x 30,000 matrix)

   3. 	Modify the file makefile so that ANSI C is used. 

	CC = gcc -ansi

        [Please use gcc version 3.2.2, 3.2.3, or 3.3.0 when compiling SVDPACKC.
	gcc versions 4.0.0 and above appear to result in segmentation faults.] 

   4.	Run 'make las2' after the above modifications are done in las2.h,
	las2.c, and makefile.

=head3 Testing SVDPACKC

The following steps will will help you check that SVDPACKC is installed 
correctly.

 # unzip the sample belladit.gz data file that comes with SVDPACKC
 gunzip belladit.gz

 # copy this as the input matrix to SVDPACKC
 cp belladit matrix

 # run las2 to test if everything is ok
 las2

 # this will not produce any output to STDOUT, but it should create 2  
 # output files - lav2 (binary) and lao2 (text)

=head2 CLUTO (version 2.1.1 or better)

The script External/install.sh will attempt to retrieve and install 
Cluto automatically. If that fails, you can follow the steps outline in 
the install script, or the instructions below. 

SenseClusters uses CLUTO to support extensive clustering options,  
analysis and visualization. CLUTO is freely available from  
L<http://www-users.cs.umn.edu/~karypis/cluto/>

If you run on both Linux and Solaris platforms, you will need to set 
your path slightly differently each time to allow SenseClusters to run.
The following code in your .cshrc file will take care of this. 

 set OSNAME=`uname -s`

 if ($OSNAME == "SunOS") then
        set path = (PATH_2_CLUTO/Sun $path)
 else if ($OSNAME == "Linux") then
        set path = (PATH_2_CLUTO/Linux $path)
 else echo "lost"
 endif

where, PATH_2_CLUTO is a complete path to the directory where CLUTO is 
downloaded and unpacked. If you only run on Solaris or Linux, then of
course you can just set the path with the appropriate statement from 
above. 

=head3 GCLUTO [optional]

Users interested in graphical visualization of clusters are encouraged to
try GCLUTO which is also freely down-loadable from 
L<http://www-users.cs.umn.edu/~karypis/cluto/gcluto/index.html>

To use GCLUTO, you will require the libglut.so.3 library installed on your 
system. These can be downloaded from -
L<http://at.rpmfind.net/opsys/linux/RPM/libglut.so.3.html>

=head1 CORE SENSECLUSTERS INSTALLATION

Note that SenseClusters can be installed via the Bundle command 
described in the SYNOPSIS. If for some reason that fails, you can 
proceed as follows:

To install the core of SenseClusters, if you have su or sudo access 
(root user), then you can install via :

C<perl -MCPAN -e 'install Text::SenseClusters';>

Or you can install manually as follows:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make install 
    cd Testing
    csh ./testall.sh
    cd ..

Note that the testall.sh scripts will not be run via automatic 
installation. If you do not install manually, you should go back and run 
the test scripts just to verify that everything is working as expected.

The exact location where SenseClusters will be installed depends
on your system configuration. A message will be printed out after
'make install' telling you exactly where it was installed. 

=head2 Local Installation of Core SenseClusters programs

If you are not able to log in as su or sudo (to be the root user), 
then you may need to install SenseClusters in a local directory that 
you own and have permissions to read and write into. You can proceed as 
above, except that you will need to provide PREFIX and LIB options for 
your Makefile.PL command, as in:

C<perl Makefile.PL PREFIX = /YOUR/DIR LIB=/YOUR/DIR/lib>

This will set up a Makefile that will install the core SenseClusters 
programs (*.pl) into C</YOUR/DIR/bin/>. You will need to set your path 
to specifically include this directory. 

The Sensecluster.pm module will be installed into C</YOUR/DIR/lib>. You 
will need to set your PERL5LIB environment variable to have this 
directory included in your @INC array (which defines the directories 
that Perl searches for modules).

You man pages will be installed in directories like  
C</YOUR/DIR/share/man/> (Linux) or C</YOUR/DIR/man/> (Solaris). You will 
need to set your MANPATH to include these. 

Note that the exact locations will be shown after executing 'make install'  
command. Please double check the recommended settings for PATH and MANPATH 
there as those will be tailored to your system. 

=head1 C SHELL (csh) SETUP 

If you install without root or superuser access, you will need to set 
the paths of the dependent packages mentioned previously. The following 
is an example of how you might set your paths before using  
SenseClusters if you are using the C shell (csh). If you use another 
shell then you will need to modify this accordingly. 

This assumes that Perl and PDL have been installed by your system  
administrator and you do not need to set paths to find them. In general 
we would recommend that Perl and PDL be installed with root access as 
it's more simple that way. 

Assume that all of the external C packages (SVDPACKC, Cluto) have been 
installed in directories beneath /space/kulka020 (our home directory 
for this example). It also assumes that all of the CPAN modules have 
been installed in /space/kulka020/MyPerlLib. In other words, it is 
assumed that all CPAN modules were installed via the following command: 		

C<perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=/space/kulka020/Text-SenseClusters-1.00 LIB=/space/kulka020/MyPerlLib>
 
 #######################################################################
 #    insert the following into ~/.cshrc and modify HOMEDIR and LIBHOME
 #######################################################################
 
 # local directory where we are installing everything
 
 setenv HOMEDIR /space/kulka020
 
 # library name extension used by Perl on our system

 setenv LIBDIR /space/kulka020/MyPerlLib
 
 # UMD developed code, we need to set their /bin directories in the PATH
 
 setenv SENSECLUSTERS $HOMEDIR/Text-SenseClusters-1.00
 setenv NSP $HOMEDIR/Text-NSP-1.09

 # externally developed C code, directories contain executable code so must 
 # be included in PATH
 
 setenv SVDPACK $HOMEDIR/SVDPACKC
 setenv CLUTO $HOMEDIR/cluto-2.1.1
 
 # pick the right version of Cluto (Solaris or Linux)
 
 set OSNAME=`uname -s`
 
 if ($OSNAME == "SunOS") then
        setenv MYCLUTO $CLUTO/Sun
 else if ($OSNAME == "Linux") then
        setenv MYCLUTO $CLUTO/Linux
 else echo "lost"
 endif
 
 # set the path that Perl searches for CPAN modules
 
 setenv PERL5LIB $LIBDIR

 # set the path that is searched for executables
 
 set AKPATH = ($SVDPACK $NSP/bin $MYCLUTO $SENSECLUSTERS/bin .)
 
 set path = ($AKPATH $path)

=head1 INSTALLING SenseClusters' Web-interface:

If you would like to setup the SenseClusters' web-interface locally 
please refer to L<README.Web.pod> for installation instructions.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The SenseClusters web page provides links to downloads, the web 
interface, documentation, and CVS directories: 

 L<http://senseclusters.sourceforge.net>

We have three mailing lists available for SenseClusters:

=over 

=item 

senseclusters-news provides announcements of new versions:
 L<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/senseclusters-news>

=item 

senseclusters-users allows users to post questions or bug reports: 
 L<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/senseclusters-users>

=item 

senseclusters-developers is for implementation related questions:
 L<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/senseclusters-developers>

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth
 tpederse at d.umn.edu

 Anagha Kulkarni, Carnegie Mellon University

 Amruta Purandare, University of Pittsburgh

This document last modified by :
$Id: INSTALL.pod,v 1.16 2013/06/27 14:34:06 tpederse Exp $

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2004-2008, Ted Pedersen

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
Texts.

Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on
the web at L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in
this distribution as FDL.txt.

=cut

