=head1 NAME

PerlGSL::Integration::MultiDim - A Perlish Interface to the GSL Monte Carlo Integration Library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use PerlGSL::Integration::MultiDim qw/int_multi/;
 my ($piby4, $error) = 
   int_multi( sub { ($_[0]**2 + $_[1]**2) < 1 }, [0,0], [1,1], {calls => 1e6});

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is an interface to the GSL's Monte Carlo multidimensional numerical integration routines. So far only the MISER routine is implemented, the VEGAS routine is planned.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

No functions are exported by default.

=over 4

=item int_multi

This is the main interface provided by the module. It takes three required arguments and an (optional) options hash. The first argument is a subroutine reference defining the integrand. The next two are array references defining the lower and upper bound of integration; these should each be of the same length and in the same order as the dimesions of the system (and thus the number of arguments taken by the subroutine reference).

The options hash reference accepts the following keys:

=over 4

=item *

calls - The number of points sampled in the function space. The default is 500000.

=back

In scalar context the result is returned, in list context the result and the standard deviation (error) are returned.

=back

=head1 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS

This module needs the GSL library installed and available. The C<PERLGSL_LIBS> environment variable may be used to pass the C<--libs> linker flags; if this is not specified, the command C<gsl-config --libs> is executed to find them. Future plans include using an L<Alien> module to provide the GSL in a more CPAN-friendly manner.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

L<PerlGSL>

=item *

L<PerlGSL::Integration::SingleDim>

=item *

L<http://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/manual/html_node/Monte-Carlo-Integration.html>

=back

=head1 SOURCE REPOSITORY

L<http://github.com/jberger/PerlGSL-Integration-MultiDim>

=head1 AUTHOR

Joel Berger, E<lt>joel.a.berger@gmail.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2012 by Joel Berger

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The GSL is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL)

