=head1 NAME

Module::Dependency - Collection of modules for examining dependencies between parents and children, like Perl files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

(See the README file that came with the distribution for a thorough overview
and introduction of what this software does)

A set of pure-perl modules and helper programs that let you build a database
of the dependency links between a collection of Perl files, and then query that 
database, even producing text, HTML, PostScript or graphical reports.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The database in question is actually a simple Storable image of a Perl data structure,
and you can create as many of these as you want. You can use the command-line tools, or
write your own Perl to query and manipulate the data however you want.

The README and README.* files are the place to start if you've not used this software
before.

=head1 WHAT THE MODULES DO

=over 4

=item Module::Dependency::Indexer

This module is used to create a database file for a collection of Perl source files.
It doesn't eval or execute any code, but uses regexps to find dependencies.

=item Module::Dependency::Info

A module used to query the database.

=item Module::Dependency::Grapher

This module is used to create textual and graphical reports of dependencies.

=back

=head1 PREREQUISITES

You'll need: Storable, File::Find, File::Spec - all of which are standard with Perl 5.6.

Optionally, if you have certain other modules you can do more: 
If you want image output you'll need GD.
If you want PostScript output you'll need PostScript::Simple.
If you want SVG output you'll need the SVG module.
If you want to be able to index modules that use the 'base' pragma, as in
'use base qw(Foo);' you'll need Safe (standard with Perl 5.6).

=head1 VERSION

$Rev: 6562 $

=cut
