=head1 NAME

Logfile - Perl extension for generating reports from logfiles

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Logfile::Cern;

  $l = new Logfile::Cern  File  => 'cache.log.gz', 
                          Group => [Domain,File,Hour];
  $l->report(Group => File,   Sort => Records);
  $l->report(Group => Domain, Sort => Bytes);
  $l->report(Group => Hour, List => [Bytes, Records]);

  use Logfile::Wftp;

  [...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Logfile extension will help you to generate various reports from
different server logfiles. In general there is no restriction as to what
information you extract from the logfiles.

=head2 Reading the files

The package can be customized by subclassing C<Logfile>.

A subclass should provide a function C<next> which reads the next
record from the file handle C<$self-E<gt>{Fh}> and returns an object of
type C<Logfile::Record>. In addition a function C<norm> may be
specified to normalize the various record fields.

Here is a shortened version of the C<Logfile::Cern> class:

  package Logfile::Cern;
  @ISA = qw ( Logfile::Base ) ;

  sub next {
      my $self = shift;
      my $fh = $self->{Fh};

      *S = $fh;
      my ($line,$host,$user,$pass,$rest,$date,$req,$code,$bytes);

      ($host,$user,$pass,$rest) = split ' ', $line, 4;
      ($rest =~ s!\[([^\]]+)\]\s*!!) && ($date = $1);
      ($rest =~ s!\"([^\"]+)\"\s*!!) && ($req = (split ' ', $1)[1]);
      ($code, $bytes) = split ' ', $rest;
      Logfile::Record->new(Host  => $host,
                           Date  => $date,
                           File  => $req,
                           Bytes => $bytes);
  }

As stated above, in general you are free to choose the fields you
enter in the record. But:

=over 5

=item B<Date>

should be a valid date string. For conversion to the seconds elapsed
since the start of epoch the modules F<GetDate> and F<Date::DateParse>
are tried. If both cannot be C<use>ed, a crude build-in module is
used.

The record constructor replaces B<Date> by the date in C<yymmdd>
form to make it sortable. Also the field B<Hour> is padded in.

=item B<Host>

Setting B<Host> will also set field B<Domain> by the verbose name of
the country given by the domain suffix of the fully qualified
domain name (hostname.domain). C<foo.bar.PG> will be mapped to C<Papua
New>. Host names containing no dot will be assigned to the domain
B<Local>. IP numbers will be assigned to the domain
B<Unresolved>. Mapping of short to long domain names is done in the
B<Net::Country> extension which might be useful in other contexts:

  use Net::Country;
  $germany = Net::Country::Name('de');

=item B<Records>

is always set to 1 in the C<Record> constructor. So this field gives
the number of successful returns from the C<next> function.

=back

Here is the shortened optional C<norm> method:

  sub norm {
      my ($self, $key, $val) = @_;

      if ($key eq File) {
          $val =~ s/\?.*//;                             # remove query
          $val =~ s!%([\da-f][\da-f])!chr(hex($1))!eig; # decode escapes
      }
      $val;
  }

The constructor reads in a logfile and builds one or more indices.

  $l = new Logfile::Cern  File => 'cache.log.gz', 
                          Group => [Host,Domain,File,Hour,Date];

There is little space but some time overhead in generating additional
indexes. If the B<File> parameter is not given, B<STDIN> is used. The
Group parameter may be a field name or a reference to a list of field
names. Only the field names given as constructor argument can be used
for report generation.

=head2 Report Generation

The Index to use for a report must be given as the B<Group>
parameter. Output is sorted by the index field unless a B<Sort>
parameter is given. Also the output can be truncated by a B<Top>
argument or B<Limit>.

The report generator lists the fields B<Bytes> and B<Records> for a
given index. The option B<List> may be a single field name or a
reference to an array of field names. It specifies which field should
be listed in addition to the B<Group> field. B<List> defaults to
B<Records>.

  $l->report(Group => Domain, List => [Bytes, Records])

Output is sorted by the B<Group> field unless overwritten by a B<Sort>
option. Default sorting order is increasing for B<Date> and B<Hour>
fields and decreasing for all other Fields. The order can be reversed
using the B<Reverse> option.


This code

  $l->report(Group => File, Sort => Records, Top => 10);

prints:

  File                          Records 
  =====================================
  /htbin/SFgate               30 31.58% 
  /freeWAIS-sf/*              22 23.16% 
  /SFgate/SFgate               8  8.42% 
  /SFgate/SFgate-small         7  7.37% 
  /icons/*                     4  4.21% 
  /~goevert                    3  3.16% 
  /journals/SIGMOD             3  3.16% 
  /SFgate/ciw                  2  2.11% 
  /search                      1  1.05% 
  /reports/96/                 1  1.05% 

Here are other examples. Also take a look at the F<t/*> files.

  $l->report(Group => Domain, Sort => Bytes);

  Domain                  Records 
  ===============================
  Germany               12 12.63% 
  Unresolved             8  8.42% 
  Israel                34 35.79% 
  Denmark                4  4.21% 
  Canada                 3  3.16% 
  Network                6  6.32% 
  US Commercial         14 14.74% 
  US Educational         8  8.42% 
  Hong Kong              2  2.11% 
  Sweden                 2  2.11% 
  Non-Profit             1  1.05% 
  Local                  1  1.05% 
  
  $l->report(Group => Hour, List => [Bytes, Records]);

  Hour            Bytes          Records 
  ======================================
  07      245093 17.66%        34 35.79% 
  08      438280 31.59%        19 20.00% 
  09      156730 11.30%        11 11.58% 
  10      255451 18.41%        16 16.84% 
  11      274521 19.79%        10 10.53% 
  12       17396  1.25%         5  5.26% 


=head2 Report options

=over 5

=item B<Group> C<=E<gt>> I<field>

Mandatory. I<field> must be one of the fields passed to the constructor.

=item B<List> C<=E<gt>> I<field>

=item B<List> C<=E<gt>> [I<field>, I<field>]

List the subtotals for I<field>s. Defaults to B<Records>.

=item B<Sort> C<=E<gt>> I<field>.

Sort output by I<field>. By default, B<Date> and B<Hour> are sorted in increasing order, whereas all
  other fields are sorted in decreasing order.

=item B<Reverse> C<=E<gt> 1> 

Reverse sorting order.

=item B<Top> C<=E<gt>> I<number>

Print only the first I<number> subtotals.

=item B<Limit> C<=E<gt>> I<number>

Print only the subtotals with B<Sort> field greater than I<number>
(less than number if sorted in increasing order).

=back

Currently reports are simply printed to STDOUT.

=head1 AUTHOR

Ulrich Pfeifer E<lt>F<pfeifer@wait.de>E<gt>

=head1 NEWS

Fixed strict refs bug for perl 5.005.

Fixed bug in fallback to included date parsing reported by James
Downs.

Fixed y2k bug as suggested by Fred Korz.  I chose the two digit
version to be a backward compatible as possible.  The C<20> will be
obvious a few years from now ;-) Output columns should now be
separated by whitespace in any case.

=head1 SEE ALSO

perl(1).

=cut
