=head1 NAME

REST::Google::Translate - OO interface to Google Translate (aka Languages) API

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	use REST::Google::Translate;

	REST::Google::Translate->http_referer('http://example.com');

	my $res = REST::Google::Translate->new(
		q => 'hello world',
		langpair => 'en|it'
	);

	die "response status failure" if $res->responseStatus != 200;

	my $translated = $res->responseData->translatedText;

	printf "Italian translation: %s\n", $translated;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<REST::Google::Translate> provides OO interface to Google REST (aka AJAX) API for languages
translation.

=head1 METHODS

=over

=item __PACKAGE__->http_referer()

Get/set HTTP C<Referer> header.

I<Note:> Google says that you should supply a valid HTTP referer header each time you
perform a request to their AJAX API, so C<new()> raises warning unless referer is specified.

=item __PACKAGE__->new()

C<q> argument should contain a phrase for translation.
C<langpair> is used to specify translation languages.

According to Google API documentation the langpair languages should be separated by "|" (pipe) sign.
For complete list of language pairs and other arguments please refer to 'Google Translate AJAX API'
documentation. E.g.:

	my $res = REST::Google::Translate->new(
		q => 'hello world',
		langpair => 'en|it'
	);

The code above will perform a following HTTP GET request:

	http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/services/language/translate?v=1.0&q=hello%20world&langpair=en%7Cit

I<Note:> You can left protocol version number unspecified while making your searches since
C<v=1.0> is passed by default.

=item responseData

To access translated text you should use C<responseData> method as follows

	$translated_text = $res->responseData->translatedText

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<REST::Google> - the base class for this module;

L<http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxlanguage/documentation/#fonje> - Google Translate AJAX API documentation;

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2008, Eugen Sobchenko <ejs@cpan.org> and Sergey Sinkovskiy <glorybox@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
