#! /bin/false

# vim: set autoindent shiftwidth=4 tabstop=4:

# Pure Perl implementation of Uniforum message translation.
# Copyright (C) 2002-2016 Guido Flohr <guido.flohr@cantanea.com>,
# all rights reserved.

# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published
# by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
# any later version.

# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
# but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
# Library General Public License for more details.

# You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
# License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
# Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
# USA.

=head1 NAME

Locale::gettext_xs - XS Implementation of Uniforum Message Translation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use gettext_xs (:locale_h :libintl_h);

 gettext $msgid;
 dgettext $domainname, $msgid;
 dcgettext $domainname, $msgid, LC_MESSAGES;
 ngettext $msgid, $msgid_plural, $count;
 dngettext $domainname, $msgid, $msgid_plural, $count;
 dcngettext $domainname, $msgid, $msgid_plural, $count, LC_MESSAGES;
 pgettext $msgctxt, $msgid;
 dpgettext $domainname, $msgctxt, $msgid;
 dcpgettext $domainname, $msgctxt, $msgid, LC_MESSAGES;
 npgettext $msgctxt, $msgid, $msgid_plural, $count;
 dnpgettext $domainname, $msgctxt, $msgid, $msgid_plural, $count;
 dcnpgettext $domainname, $msgctxt, $msgid, $msgid_plural, $count, LC_MESSAGES;
 textdomain $domainname;
 bindtextdomain $domainname, $directory;
 bind_textdomain_codeset $domainname, $encoding;
 my $category = LC_CTYPE;
 my $category = LC_NUMERIC;
 my $category = LC_TIME;
 my $category = LC_COLLATE;
 my $category = LC_MONETARY;
 my $category = LC_MESSAGES;
 my $category = LC_ALL;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The module B<Locale::gettext_xs> is the low-level interface to 
message translation according to the Uniforum approach that is
for example used in GNU gettext and Sun's Solaris.

The module does not necessarily work on your system.  It depends
on the presence of shared libraries that are not always available.
The higher-level modules Locale::TextDomain::(3), resp. 
Locale::Messages(3) will fall back to a pure Perl version if 
boostrapping B<Locale::gettext_xs> fails.

The interface of B<Locale::gettext_xs> is mostly identical to the pure 
Perl version as described in Locale::gettext_pp(3), see there for details.
Differences are outlined below.

B<Locale::gettext_xs> is downwards compatible to Locale::gettext(3)
by Phillip Vandry <vandry@Mlink.NET>.  You can use it as replacement
for Locale::gettext(3).

Please note that directory names passed to the function bindtextdomain()
are automatically converted from Perl semantics (slash as directory
separator) to local semantics (for example the backslash for MS-DOS).

=head1 AUTHOR

Copyright (C) 2002-2016 L<Guido Flohr|http://www.guido-flohr.net/>
(L<mailto:guido.flohr@cantanea.com>), all rights reserved.  See the source
code for details!code for details!

The module is based on the work of Phillip Vandry <vandry@Mlink.NET>
in Locale::gettext(3).

=head1 SEE ALSO

Locale::TextDomain(3pm), Locale::gettext_pp(3pm), Locale::gettext(3pm), 
Locale::Messages(3pm), File::Spec(3), perl(1)

=cut

Local Variables:
mode: perl
perl-indent-level: 4
perl-continued-statement-offset: 4
perl-continued-brace-offset: 0
perl-brace-offset: -4
perl-brace-imaginary-offset: 0
perl-label-offset: -4
tab-width: 4
End:

=cut
