=head1 Redirects

There are multiple kinds of redirects.  

=head1 Permanent Redirects.

A permanent redirect is a sign that a resource has been moved.  You
would use it, for example, if you changed internet provider and had to
change where your pages were, or if you moved a page around within
your web site.

Permanent redirects are the correct way to signal a change of link,
and if everything worked properly, detecting these would be about the
main job of a link checker.  It doesn't of course.

=head1 Temporary Redirects

According to the HTTP definitions, a temporary redirect is just
telling a client (e.g. your browser) that it would be better to get
the document it wants from somewhere else right now, but that later it
will be back here.

Examples of use could be someone who has five or six different
servers.  By giving out a different redirect at random from the
primary server, the load can be spread evenly between the others.  Of
course, there are much better ways of doing this, but we have to be
ready for everything.  

In the above examples you wouldn't want to change the link.  Just tell
the link maintainance system that you don't want to be bothered about
this redirect again.

It is also possible that someone has chosen the wrong kind of redirect
through some kind of misunderstanding.  The symptoms would be

=over 4

=item * 

the redirect wasn't there before

=item * 

the redirect only goes to one page

=item * 

the pages mention the new redirect

=cut

For this reason, temporary redirects should, by default, be shown to
the WWW maintainer.

=cut
