=head1 NAME

Mojolicious::Plugin::MostTagHelpers - Most tag helpers for your Mojolicious templates and slides

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # Mojolicious
  $app->plugin('MostTagHelpers');

  # Mojolicious::Lite
  plugin 'MostTagHelpers';

  %= div '#mydiv.myclass' => begin
    %= p '.myp.myq' => 'Text'
    %= p 'Other Text'
  % end
 
  <div id="mydiv" class="myclass">
   <p class="myp myq">Text</p>
   <p>Other Text</p>
  </div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Extra tag helpers useful for templating and slide making

=head1 NON-ELEMENT HELPERS

=over

=item incremental

 %= ul begin
   %= incremental begin
     %= li 'Always shown'
     %= li 'Shown after one click'
   % end
 % end

 %= incremental ul begin
   %= li 'Always shown'
   %= li 'Shown after one click'
 % end

  <ul>
    <li ms_overlay="1-">Always shown</li>
    <li ms_overlay="2-">Shown after one click</li>
  </ul>

Adds ms_overlay attributes to a sequence of elements with increasing start number.
Note that if passed an html element which has only one element, the attributes will be applied to the children of that attribute.
Because of this, the two templates above result in the same shown output.

=back

=head1 ELEMENTS

This module wraps lots of the HTML tags (though not all) into helpers.
If the helper gets a first argument that starts with C<#> or C<.>, that argument is parsed like a selector.
Note that only one id (the first) will be used if multiple are given.
Note that if C<id> or C<class> or attributes are passed by name, they will overwrite these.

While this module wraps a large number of HTML tags some have not been included.
Some elements are not included because of conflicts with existing keywords or helpers.
Others are not likely to be useful and are not included.
This list may change in the future, but common tags which meet the above critera are likely stable.


=over

=item a

=item abbr

=item acronym

=item address

=item applet

=item area

=item base

=item basefont

=item bdo

=item bgsound

=item big

=item blink

=item blockquote

=item body

=item br

=item button

=item caption

=item center

=item cite

=item code

=item col

=item colgroup

=item dd

=item del

=item dfn

=item dir

=item div

=item dl

=item dt

=item em

=item embed

=item fieldset

=item font

=item form

=item frame

=item frameset

=item h1

=item h2

=item h3

=item h4

=item h5

=item h6

=item head

=item hr

=item html

=item i

=item iframe

=item ilayer

=item img

=item input

=item ins

=item isindex

=item kbd

=item label

=item legend

=item li

=item link

=item listing

=item map

=item menu

=item meta

=item multicol

=item nobr

=item noembed

=item noframes

=item nolayer

=item noscript

=item object

=item ol

=item optgroup

=item option

=item p

=item param

=item plaintext

=item pre

=item q

=item s

=item samp

=item script

=item select

=item small

=item spacer

=item span

=item strike

=item strong

=item style

=item sub

=item sup

=item table

=item tbody

=item td

=item textarea

=item tfoot

=item th

=item thead

=item title

=item tr

=item tt

=item u

=item ul

=item var

=item wbr

=item xmp

=item ~comment

=item ~directive

=item ~literal

=item ~pi

=back

=head1 INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

	perl Build.PL
	./Build
	./Build test
	./Build install

SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

After installing, you can find documentation for this module with the
perldoc command.

    perldoc Mojolicious::Plugin::MostTagHelpers

You can also look for information at:

    AnnoCPAN, Annotated CPAN documentation
        http://annocpan.org/dist/Mojolicious-Plugin-MostTagHelpers

    CPAN Ratings
        http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Mojolicious-Plugin-MostTagHelpers

    Search CPAN
        http://search.cpan.org/dist/Mojolicious-Plugin-MostTagHelpers/

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::TagHelpers>
L<App::MojosSlides|http://github.com/jberger/App-MojoSlides>

=head1 SOURCE REPOSITORY

L<http://github.com/hrupprecht/Mojolicious-Plugin-MostTagHelpers>

=head1 AUTHOR

Joel Berger - C<joel.a.berger@gmail.com>

Holger Rupprecht - C<Holger.Rupprecht@gmx.de>

This project is an extracted part of L<App::MojoSlides|http://github.com/jberger/App-MojoSlides>,
created by Joel Berger, C<joel.a.berger@gmail.com>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2013 by Joel Berger and Holger Rupprecht

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut


=pod
