=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

PDK::Device::Cisco::Ios - A module for interacting with Cisco IOS devices

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use PDK::Device::Cisco::Ios;

  my $device = PDK::Device::Cisco::Ios->new(
    host     => '192.168.1.1',
    username => 'admin',
    password => 'password'
  );

  $device->login();
  # Use inherited methods from PDK::Device::Cisco

=head1 DESCRIPTION

PDK::Device::Cisco::Ios is a Moose-based module that extends PDK::Device::Cisco to provide specific functionality for Cisco IOS devices. Currently, this module serves as a framework for inheritance and can be extended in the future to include IOS-specific features and operations.

=head1 INHERITANCE

This module inherits from L<PDK::Device::Cisco>.

=head1 METHODS

This module currently does not define any additional methods beyond those inherited from PDK::Device::Cisco. Future versions may include IOS-specific methods as needed.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

This module currently does not define any additional attributes beyond those inherited from PDK::Device::Cisco. Future versions may include IOS-specific attributes as needed.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

This module requires the following Perl modules:

=over 4

=item Moose

=item Expect

=item Carp

=item namespace::autoclean

=back

=head1 FUTURE DEVELOPMENT

This module is designed as a framework for Cisco IOS-specific operations. Future versions may include:

=over 4

=item * IOS-specific configuration methods

=item * IOS-specific troubleshooting tools

=item * IOS-specific feature management

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<PDK::Device::Cisco>

=head1 AUTHOR

WENWU YAN <968828@gmail.com>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2024 WENWU YAN

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

=cut