package Test::WWW::Selenium::More::Manual::BestPractices;


__END__
=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Test::WWW::Selenium::More::Manual::BestPractices

=head1 NAME

Test::WWW::Selenium::More::Manual::BestPractices

=head1 BEST PRACTICES

Following these guidelines will make your life easier when writing Selenium
tests.  They are listed in order of importance.

=head2 Don't use pause() or sleep()

Sometimes people use pause() or sleep() because wait_for_page_to_load_ok()
doesn't work for them.  The reason it doesn't work is page components are
loading via JavaScript and wait_for_page_to_load_ok() ignores anything
JavaScript related.

However using these methods will make your tests take a long time and will
cause hard to reproduce intermittent failures and generally drive you crazy.  

If your page uses jQuery, use jquery_wait_for_page_to_load_ok().

If your page doesn't use jQuery you can use wait_for_text_present_ok() in most
cases.

=head2 Use XPATH locators

CSS can't choose the nth thing in a list or table.  XPATH can.  For the sake of
consistency you may want to stay with XPATH.

=head2 Use comments when things get complicated

Most methods allow you to pass along a comment.  The comment shows up in your TAP output.  

For example.  Sometimes when using XPATH, you should add a comment to the
test output.  You can do that like this: 

    $selenium->click_ok('//table/tbody/tr[3]/td/input[name=foo]', "click 3rd checkbox")

=head2 Use $selenium->note() to document your tests

This works like Test::More::note().

=head1 AUTHOR

Eric Johnson <kablamo at iijo dot nospamthanks dot org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2012 by Eric Johnson.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut

