=head1 NAME

Tie::Nested - multiple levels of nested tied HASHes and ARRAYs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  tie my(%d), 'Tie::Nested', recurse => 'Hash::Case::Lower';
  $d{FOO} = 'BAR';
  print $d{Foo};   # BAR
  print $d{fOo};   # BAR
  print keys %$d;  # foo

  $d{FOO}{BAR} = 42;
  print Data::Dumper::Dumper \%d;   # {foo => {bar => 42}};

  $d{nEw} = {with}{NestEd}{asSIgn => 3}; # works!

  tie my(%e), 'Tie::Nested'
     , nestings => ['Hash::Case::Lower', 'Hash::Case::Upper'];
  $e{FOO}{bar}{Tic} = 42;
  print Data::Dumper::Dumper \%e;   # {foo => {BAR => {Tic => 42}}};

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Tie a data-structure automatically.  On the top level, we specify
for each of the sub-levels how they have to be tied. But after
that, we do not need to care.

For instance, we have read/are reading a directory structure
for a case-insensitive file-system.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 constructors

B<ARRAY>(, 'Tie::Nested', [DATA], OPTIONS)

=over 4

See tie on HASH. You can use ARRAYs as well!  All examples are with
HASHes, but you are not limited to HASHes!

=back

B<HASH>(, 'Tie::Nested', [DATA], OPTIONS)

=over 4

Tie to a new HASH. The optional DATA contains the initial contents
for the HASH.

Either the C<recurse> or the C<nesting> option is required. For examples,
see the SYNOPSIS.

 Option --Default
 nesting  []
 recurse  undef

. nesting => ARRAY-of-TIECLASS

=over 4

Each of the TIECLASSes implements a tie. For the first level, the first
TIECLASS is used. For the second the next, and so forth until you run
out of classes. Then, we proceed with

=back

. recurse => TIECLASS

=over 4

The TIECLASS implements a tie. Each of the nested structures will tie to
this same TIECLASS.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Tie-Nested distribution version 0.10,
built on February 15, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/tie-nested>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

