=head1 NAME

Win32::ActAcc 1.1 - Active Accessibility client in Perl

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Win32::ActAcc enables Perl scripts to examine the GUI and monitor
WinEvents, as screen readers do.

In this Perl extension, you'll find familiar Active Accessibility
functions, along with novelties such as iterators to accommodate
laziness and impatience.

For documentation (on the Perl extension, not Active Accessibility
itself), run C<perldoc Win32::ActAcc> or view ActAcc.html after
installation.

For clicking and typing and such, you may use Win32::GuiTest to
complement the view of the GUI you get from Active Accessibility.

=head1 INSTALLATION

Building the extension from source code requires Visual C++ 6.0 SP 4
or later, and the "Platform SDK" of July 2000 or later.  (The C++
compiler in the ".NET Framework 1.0" SDK will do, but it creates a
dependency on a .NET DLL that not everyone has.)  The "nmake test"
requires English-language Windows 2000 or XP.

Reboot first, to unload any residual inproc WinEvent handlers from a
prior version of Win32::ActAcc.

 perl Makefile.PL
 nmake 
 nmake test
 nmake install

C<nmake test> depends on very little outside of Win32::ActAcc
itself, and therefore tests very few features.

A more in-depth test, C<eg\playpen.pl>, uses the small C# Windows
Forms app in the C<eg\playpen> directory to exercise more
features. Even this simple app has been observed to present itself
differently to Active Accessibility on computers running different
versions of Windows, so your mileage may vary.

=head1 CHANGES from version 1.0

You can import specific symbols, or get all of them like this:

 use Win32::ActAcc qw(:all); 

C<dig> allows paths to omit C<client> only by request:

 $Win32::ActAcc::IMPLICIT_CLIENT = 1; # deprecated

The "Start Menu" module is history.  Each revision of Windows
outsmarted it.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2004, Phill Wolf. 

pbwolf@cpan.org
