=head1 Deliantra Manual

=head2 Features

=over 4

=item Fullscreen Map

Deliantra uses a fullscreen map, which greatly enhances how much of the
game world you can see.

=item Persistent Map Cache

Deliantra can persistently cache all map data it received from the
server. This not only allows it to display an overview map, but also
ensures that once-explored areas will be available the next time you want
to explore more.

=item Hardware acceleration

Deliantra can take advantage of OpenGL hardware acceleration. Most modern
graphics cards have difficulties with 2D acceleration, while 3D graphics
is accelerated well.

=item No arbitrary limits

Deliantra does not suffer from arbitrary limits (like a fixed amount of
face numbers). There are still limits, but they are not arbitrarily low :)

=item High quality text rendering

Although surprising at first, high quality text rendering is a real
must have feature.  For this, Deliantra leverages Παν語 (PanGo) to offer
real-world text output quality, so you can chat in 日本語 (japanese),
ﺎﻠﻋﺮﺒﻳﺓ (arabic) or most any other language/script, as long
as suitable fonts are installed.

=back

=head1 Usage

=head2 X<the_keyboard>Keyboard/Keymappings

The keyboard works quite similar to other programs: If a widget (e.g. a text entry) has the focus,
you can enter and edit text there.

Special key bindings apply to the playing area. It needs to be focused to
work. If it doesn't have the focus, it will be tinted in red, in that case
you can focus it by clicking into it.

The following keys are available in the playing area:

=over 4

=item B<F1>..B<F9> - open various dialogs (use the right mouse button menu to see which).

=item B<Tab> - toggle (make visible/invisible) the playerbook window.

=item B<Left-Shift-Tab> - toggle (make visible/invisible) the message window.

=item B<Spacebar> - apply the item below you (selected by the server, usually the topmost item).

=item B<Return> - activate the currently-visible entry in the message window.

=item B<Left-Alt-1..9> - activate the nth tab in the message window.

=item B<Left-Alt-x> - close the currently active tab in the message window.

=item B<,> (the comma) - take the item below you (selected by the server, usually the topmost item).

=item Cursor/Arrow Keys, Keypad-B<12346789> - directional movement/attack.

If you press the Alt-Modifier together with a Cursor/Arrow-Key, then you
will use the next direction counterclockwise, this gives you access to the
diagonal directions on keyboards without a numeric keypad. This works together
with other modifiers, too.

=over 4

=item B<Shift>-I<direction> - use your ranged weapon slot to attack the space indicated by the direction key.

=item B<Ctrl>-I<direction> - run into the indicate direction as fast as possible, attacking everything in your way.

=back

=item Keypad-B<5> - use your current range slot on yourself or the space where you are standing.

=item Keypad-B<+> - toggle between your range and combat slots

Only one of them can be active at any specific time. Deliantra
automatically switches to the right slot when you attack, but sometimes a
weapon (combat slot) has some specific effect (for example, lets you heal
faster) which would not be working when your range slot is active.

=item B<'> - open the completer.

=item B<"> - open the completer, presetting it with your current communication command.

=item B<a>-B<z> (lowercase characters) - open the completer, presetting it with the character types.

=item B<Ctrl>-B<Insert> - open the macro recorder/key binding editor and start recording.

=item Keypad-B<enter> - examine item on floor.

=item B<Left-Alt-s> - ready_skill find traps

=item B<Left-Alt-d> - ready_skill disarm traps

=item B<Left-Alt-p> - ready_skill praying

=back

=head2 The Map

The map is always displayed in the background, behind all other windows and UI elements.

#TODO# middle-click scrolls
#
# keys:
#
# a apply
# keypad moves, kp_5 applies ranged attack to self

Starting to type enters the I<completion mode>. In that mode, you can type
abbreviations or commands and have them executed as soon as they match a
valid command. This is best explained by a few examples:

Typing B<climb> will display a list of commands with I<climb> in their
name, such as I<ready_skill climbing> and I<use_skill climbing>.

You can abbreviate commands by typing only the first character of every
word (or even characters within the word - the client will try to make
a good guess, as long as the characters are in order). For example,
typing I<iwor> will likely select I<invoke word of recall>, while I<ccfo>
will select I<cast create food>. Likewise, I<rscli> will likely select
I<ready_skill climbing> and I<usl> will give you I<use_skill levitation>.

You can enter space and other text as arguemnt to the command. For
example, C<cfoo waybread> will expand to C<cast create food waybread>.

=head2 The map overview

This is the small mini map in the upper left corner. It displays the areas which
you already visited before.

=head2 The Status area in the lower right corner

The area in the lower right corner displays the most interesting
stats while playing. The 4 gauges: Health, Mana/Spellpoints,
Grace and Food. The top of each gauge shows the current value
and the bottom value is the maximum value.

Going over each gauge with the mouse cursor will show a tooltip
with a detailed explanation of each stat.

Below the gauges there is a line that looks like this:

   Exp: ######## (lvl ####)

The former number are the experience points and the number in the parents
is the level of your character.
The level of the character depends on the experience points you have.
If the experience points reach a certain value your level rises or falls.
This depends on the experience table of the server you are currently playing on.

On the bottom there is a line:

   Rng: xxxxxxxxx

It tells you have you have in your range slot. The range slot is activated
if you "fire" (by pressing ctrl+direction key). For example there could be a spell
in your range slot or a weapon (like a bow) you will fire with.

=head2 The Floorbox

Right to the left of the status area there is the floorbox.
It displays what is on the tile your character stands on. If there are very many
items there will be a "More..." button which will open up the Inventory.

If you opened a container a button "Close container" will show up.

=head2 Setup

This is the main setup window (opened via the I<Setup> button on the top of
the client window), with following sub-windows:

=head3 Server

This window is for editing the connection settings and shows
some information about the currently connected server.

=head3 Pickup

Here you can configure your automatic pickup configuration.

=head3 Graphics

Here you can configure some aspects of the graphical appearance
of the client.

=head3 Audio

This window lets you enable/disable audio and set the background music
volume.

=head3 Keyboard

Here you can edit the key bindings you have made.

B<PLEASE DON'T FORGET TO PRESS> I<Save Config> on the top of the client window
after you are finished.

=head3 Debug

Here are some debugging options, which are maybe only interesting to the developers
of the client.

=head2 The Playerbook

You can open the Playerbook by pressing B<tab> or by pressing B<F2> for 
the Statistics, B<F3> for the Skills, B<F4> for the Spellbook or B<F5> for the
Inventory.

What these are is explained below:

=head3 Statistics

=for image sc_statistics.jpg

You can toggle this windows via B<F2>.

This page tells you about your current status and statistics. 
The B<Player> frame shows your name, title and current map, and your
current weight and maximum weight.

The B<Primary/Secondary Statistics> informs you about the status of
your L<primary statistics|glossary/primary statistics>, which is the group on the left and about the
L<secondary statistics|glossary/secondary statistics> which is the group on the right.

=head3 Skills

=for image sc_skill_list.jpg

You can toggle this windows via B<F3>.

TBD

=head3 Spellbook

=for image sc_spellbook.jpg

You can toggle this windows via B<F4>.

=head3 X<playerbook_inventory>Inventory

=for image sc_inventory.jpg

You can toggle this windows via B<F5>.

On the left side of this windows you see the player's inventory.
On top the current weight and maximum weight are listed on the right
of the B<sort order button>, which reveals following possible orders:

=over 4

=item Type/Name

This order sorts the items first by type, and then by name.

=item Recent/Normal/Locked

This order puts the recently picked up or applied items to the top,
then it displays the normal not so recently changed items, and to the last
it displays the locked items.

=item Weight/Type

This order first sorts by weight and then by type.

=back

Below the sort order button there is the item list. You can hover the mouse cursor over
the items to see what actions you can do with the mouse. Right click will 
show you the B<context menu>, with the following actions:

=over 4

=item examine

This will let you examine the item further and print informations like this:

   That is cloak (unidentified)
   It is made of: leather.
   It goes around your shoulders.
   It weights 5.000 kg.
   You reckon it is worth between 1 gold coin and 1 gold coin.

=item mark

This marks the item for further operations, like L<thawing or igniting
something with a flint and steel|faq_igniteandthaw>.

=item ignite/thaw

This will ignite for example a torch or thaw an icecube with a B<flint &
steel> L<$ARCH/flint_and_steel.x11>, which is B<required to be in your
inventory> for this to work.

=item inscribe

This will let you write on something (eg. scrolls) with a B<pen>
L<$ARCH/stylus.x11>, which is I<required to be in your inventory> for this
to work.

When you click on this context menu entry a small popup window will open
where you can type in what you want to inscribe.

=item rename

This lets you rename an item. When you click on this context menu entry
a small popup window will open and let you type in the new name for the
item.

=item apply

This L<applies|command/apply> an object.

=item lock/unlock

=item drop/put/take all

=item drop/put/take <n>

=back

On the right side there will be displayed the currently open container
or the floor on which you stand. There are nearly the same context menu
operation aviable. On the top the is the name of the currently opened
container or just 'Floor'.

If a container is open, there will be a button 'Close container' which
will apply the container in your inventory again to close it.

=head2 X<binding_recorder>Binding Recorder

This is a special facility which lets you record commands issued via the
completer or the message window and bind them to a key.

(I<Note:> as this facility is quite complicated it might change in future).

It mainly works this way:

First you have to I<start recording> via the button on the top.

Then you can issue commands via the completer, or just run around, the
commands will be recorded in the background.

If you are finished with the command sequence click on I<stop recording>
(the same button you used to start recording).

Then you can see a list of the commands you issued and delete them if you
want.

Next you have to click on I<bind>, which will open a key query, where you
have to press the corresponding key combination which you want to bind to
this command sequence.

After you are finished you have to click on B<OK>.

B<Don't forget to> I<Save Config> B<!>

