=head1 Skills

=head1 Description

Instead of gaining experience for basically just killing monsters (and
disarming traps) you can also gain experience in a variety of other
skills, which can either be learned or used through a skill tool or
talisman.

=head1 X<skill_description>Skill Descriptions

Below is a more detailed description of each skills and how they are used.

=head2 alchemy

You can identify potions, containers, and different kinds of ore and
mineral, mix potions and create other stuff (such as gold, weapons, deadly
monsters killing him/her etc.) from other ingredients using a cauldron
L<$ARCH/cauldron.x11>.

To identify alchemy stuff you have to stand over it or have it in your inventory and
issue the command C<use_skill alchemy>. The alchemy items will be identified. Some might
not get identified if your alchemy level is too low.

A higher alchemy level will also help you to estimate the value of items better.

To create something new, for example some dust or potion, you have to get a B<cauldron>.
You find these in shops, guilds and some appartments. Some alchemy shops also let you use
their cauldron for a fee. All you need now is to know what items creates which other item.
You learn the ingredients this by finding recipes. It is B<very important> that you B<identify>
all ingredients for a recipe before using them!

For a start you could try to make B<water of the wise>:
Get 7 water bottles (filled), identify them, put them in a cauldron, do C<use_skill alchemy>.
If everything worked there should be B<water of the wise> in the cauldron now.
Congratulations, your first alchemy was done!

Be careful when doing alchemy and trying complicated receipes, they might fail and
will backfire heavily at you.

I<Never, ever, do alchemy in your home or in public places!> You can
easily create powerful monsters that will kill you, kill you again when
you wake up in your savebed, kill you again... etc.

=head2 bargaining

This skill helps you to bargain in shops when buying and selling. The higher
your bargaining level is the better prices you will get. Besides having a high
bargaining skill it helps a lot to have a high L<charisma|stat_Cha> stat.

When you are in a shop, you can C<use_skill bargaining> to see whether that
shop will buy the items you want to sell at a higher price than others and
whether the shopkeeper likes you. Elf shopkeepers will like elf players.

=head2 bowyer

You can identify missile weapons and missiles such as arrows, bolts and
bows.  One can also create special bows and arrows from other ingredients
using the bowyer skill like the L<alchemy skill|skill_description/alchemy>
skill and a B<workbench> L<$ARCH/workbench.x11>
(you just have to find out a recipe).

=head2 clawing

You can make a "bare-handed attack". Damage is based on the user's
L<strength|stat_Str> and level. With time, one can have different claws
such as fire claws or electric claws. An elemental residue from the dragon
guild is required to change this. The dragon guild can be found in scorn.

=head2 levitation

You can levitate (fly low) at will. Using the skill first makes you
levitate, and at the second time returns you to the earth.
Levitation can be useful to fly over water streams that move you
if you walk in them, or it prevents you from falling into a pit.

=head2 summoning

You can cast spells related to the B<summoning> school of wizardry, which
mostly summon monsters, bullet walls and similar things.  This skill
may be acquired either through the use of an appropriate B<talisman> or
learned via a L<skill scroll>.

The most basic spells you might want to get is 'summon pet monster'
and 'charm monsters'. Look in the L<Spellbook|spellbook> if you got
the spells and read their description.

=head2 pyromancy

You can cast spells related to the B<pyromancy> (fire) school of
wizardry.  This skill may be acquired either through the use of an
appropriate B<talisman> or learned via a L<skill scroll>.

The first spell would be 'burning hands' which casts a cone of fire which
burns your enemies. It becomes stronger with your pyromancy level.

=head2 evocation

You can cast spells related to the B<evocation> (mostly cold magic)
school of wizardry.  This skill may be acquired either through the use of
an appropriate B<talisman> or learned via a L<skill scroll>.

The spell you should start with is 'icestorm' which casts a cone
of ice which freezes your enemies. It becomes stronger with your evocation level.

=head2 sorcery

You can cast spells related to the B<sorcery> (identify, town portal and
other meta-spells) school of wizardry.  This skill may be acquired either
through the use of an appropriate B<talisman> or learned via a B<skill
scroll>.

Sorcery has many utility spells, like 'identify', 'town portal' (making portals
between two points in the world) and also attack spells like 'spark shower'
and 'steambolt'.

=head2 flame touch

You can make a "bare-handed attack". Damage is based on the user's
L<strength|stat_Str> and level. This is the default hand-to-hand fighting
skill for the fireborn character class.

=head2 hiding

This skill lets you hide, that means that you will become invisible.
To hide you need to find a place with other stuff on it where you can hide.

You enjoy limited form of invisibility. If you attack or move too much
you become visible.

=head2 jeweler

You can identify amulets, rings and talismans. One can also improve magic
rings or enchant non-magic rings to give them stat bonuses, this works
similar to the L<alchemy skill|skill_description/alchemy>, only that
you need to put the ingredients in a B<jeweler's workbench>.

For a more detailed documentation look in the L<jeweler skill documentation|jeweler_skill>.

=head2 jumping

You can "skip" over one, two or three spaces in the selected
direction.  Distance depends on weight carried, L<strength|stat_Str> and
L<dexterity|stat_Dex> of the user. This skill may also be used as an
attack.

=head2 karate

You can make a "bare-handed attack". Damage is based on the user's
L<strength|stat_Str> and level. This attack is the fastest and (at higher
levels) most deadly of the hand-to-hand attacks available.

=head2 climbing

Having this skill allows you to move faster through hilly areas than players
without this skill. B<Note:> You can't gain experience in this skill. Having
this skill is enough to move faster.

=head2 literacy

With this skill you can identify books and scrolls in your inventory,
giving you more experience that you cna invest into identifying higher
level books and scrolls.

Literacy is also required to read books and scrolls, and to learn new
spells and skills from books and scrolls.

=head2 lockpicking

You may "pick locks" (open doors). You need to have readied some
B<lockpicks> to use this skill.

=head2 meditation

Player can regain mana/hp at an accelerated rate by C<use_skill meditation>,
the L<skill_description/praying> skill. Player must first strip
off encumbering armour however. This skill is only available to the "monk"
character class.

=head2 one handed weapons

You can use one-handed hand-held weapons (e.g. B<shortsword>, B<dagger>, 
B<mace>, etc). Wield and ready the weapon by applying it and use the fire and
direction keys.

=head2 two handed weapons

You can use two-handed hand-held weapons (e.g. B<longsword>, B<club>, etc).
Wield and ready the weapon by applying it and use the fire and direction keys.

=head2 missile weapons

The user is capabale of making attacks with ranged weapons (eg bow, crossbow).
Fire arrows by applying a bow and using the fire and direction keys. To fire
specific arrows to kill a monster that is weak against a certain arrow, mark
this arrow and fire.

=head2 mountaineer

While the skill is readied, the possessor will move faster through "hilly"
terrain (hills, mountains, etc.)

=head2 oratory

You may "recruit" followers targeting them with your B<oratory>
skill. Recruitees must be unaggressive to start (a good way to pacify
monsters is the L<singing skill|skill_description/singing>). Use of
this skill may anger the audience. Also, some monsters are immune to
recruitment. Success depends on user's level and her L<charisma|stat_Cha>
vs. the recruitee's L<intelligence|stat_Int> and level.

Kill experience from your followers goes directly to your oratory skill.

Cleaning women and unagggressive low-level monsters (such as the dogs in
the wizards house in scorn) are good initial targets for this skill.

=head2 praying

The praying skill allows you to cast "cleric" spells. In addition, this
skill may be used to accelerate the accumulation of grace points by
praying (see L<How do I pray?|how_tp_pray>. This skill may be either
learned (e.g. using a L<skill scroll>) or acquired through the use of a
B<holy symbol>.

One of the best spells to start with is the 'holy word' spell and later,
if you find it, the 'banishment' spell, which is much stronger.

=head2 punching

You can make a "bare-handed attack". Damage is based on the user's
L<strength|stat_Str> and level. This is the most feeble of the
hand-to-hand attacks.

=head2 find traps

You can search (more effectively) for traps. This is not a "passive"
skill, it must be applied in order to gain the advantage in discovering
traps, or actively used when in vicinity of a trap. To use it, fire into
any direction.

=head2 disarm traps

You can disarm previously discovered traps (for example, with the B<find
traps> skill).

=head2 mining

You know how to use a pickaxe to extract minerals from veins. You can also use
spells of the mining spell school. For instance the I<detect mineral> spell.

=head2 sense curse

You can detect whether items in your inventory or on the floor are
B<cursed> by using this skill.

=head2 sense magic

You can detect whether items in your inventory or on the floor are
B<magic> by using this skill.

=head2 singing

You may pacify hostile monsters with this area attack skill (it is
directionless and affects the area around you - the higher the skill,
the larger the area). Certain kinds of monsters are immune. Success
depends on user's level and her L<charisma|stat_Cha> vs. the monster's
L<intelligence|stat_Int> and level.

Singing is a good companion skill for the L<oratory
skill|skill_description/oratory>: first you pacify creates using singing,
then you can orate them, convincing them if your cause. It is a useful
skill when monsters are overwhelming you, too.

=head2 smithery

You can identify arms and armour that you hold, and, with the help of a
B<forge>, can even create weapons using the alchemy skill.

=head2 stealing

You can take items from the inventory of NPCs, monsters and maybe other
players.

=head2 thaumaturgy

You can identify rods, wands and horns that you are holding, and, with
the help of a B<thaumaturgists workbench> and the alchemy skill, create
those things.

=head2 throwing

You can throw items at monsters. To do this, fire at a monster with this skill
readied. You can chose what to throw by marking an item.

=head2 use magic item

You can use magic items like rods/wands/horns. The level of experience
influences how powerful the spells are you can evoke from the
rod/wand/horn.

=head2 woodsman

While the skill is readied, the possessor will move faster through
"wooded" terrain (B<forest>, B<grasslands>, B<brush>, B<jungle>, etc.).

Woodsmen can also craft various items useful to their skill.

=head2 inscription

You can inscribe empty scrolls and books with a text. This is useful to
create messages, especially via the Imperial Post Office (IPO).

You can also write spell scrolls with a spell known to you. You need
L<mana|stat_mana>, time and an old scroll for that. Backfire effects are
possible. Only available as a 'writing pen'.

How to write into a mail scroll/books etc.:

   mark <name of scroll> # or use the menu
   use_skill inscription <your message goes here>

How to rewrite a spell scroll:

   mark <name of scroll> # or use the menu
   cast <spell>          # prepare the spell you want to write
   use_skill inscription # write the spell on the scroll

If you succeed, the scroll will be a scroll of the spell you chose and
your level of inscription as its level. Hence, you don't need to be that
level in the spell skill to write higher level spellscrolls.

Caution: Magic spell writing can be risky to one's health. There can be
some negative effects if one fails to write a spell scroll. The most
benign is that one becomes confused for a short time. Other effects are
more severe and can even be dangerous.

=head2 spark touch

You can do a "bare-handed attack" and shock the opponent with this skill
readied. Attacking is done by running into the opponent. This is a unique skill
that can only be used by sparklings.

=head2 shiver

You can do a "bare-handed attack" and send waves of frost to the opponent with
this skill readied. Attacking is done by running into the opponent. This is a
unique skill that can only be used by iceborns.

=head2 acid splash

You can do a "bare-handed attack" and splash the opponent with acid using this
skill. Attacking is done by running into the opponent. This is a unique skill
that can only be used by acidborns.

=head2 poison nail

You can do a "bare-handed attack" and inject poison into the opponent with
this skill readied. Attacking is done by running into the opponent. This is a
unique skill that can only be used by goblins.

=head1 About experience and skills

=head2 Associated and miscellaneous skills

In Deliantra, two types of skills exist; The first kind, "associated"
skills, are those skills which are associated with a category of
experience. The other kind of skill, "miscellaneous" skills, are not
related to any experience category.

The main difference between these two kinds of skills is in the result
of their use. When associated skills are used successfully experience
is accrued in the experience category associated with that skill. In
contrast, the use of miscellaneous skills never gains the player any
experience regardless of the success in using it.

Both miscellaneous and associated skills can fail. This means that
the attempt to use the skill was unsuccessful. Both miscellaneous
and associated skills can have certain primary stats associated with
them. These associated stats can help to determine if the use of a skill
is successful and to what degree it is successful.

All gained experience is modified by the associated stats for that skill
(table skill statistics) and then the appropriate experience category
automatically updated as needed.

=head2 Restrictions on skills use and gaining experience

Neither a character's stats nor the character class restricts the player
from gaining experience in any of the experience categories. Also, there
are no inherent restrictions on character skill use-any player may use any
acquired skill.

   Average of Experienced
   Associated Gain
   Stats      Multiplier
   1          0.01
   2          0.1
   3          0.3
   4          0.5
   5          0.6
   6          0.7
   7          0.8
   8          0.85
   9          0.9
   10         0.95
   11         0.96
   12         0.97
   13         0.98
   14         0.99
   15         1.0
   16         1.01
   17         1.02
   18         1.03
   19         1.04
   20         1.05
   21         1.07
   22         1.09
   23         1.12
   24         1.15
   25         1.2
   26         1.3
   27         1.4
   28         1.5
   29         1.7
   30         2.0

=head2 Algorithm for Experience Gain under the skills system

Here we take the view that a player must "overcome an opponent" in
order to gain experience. Examples include foes killed in combat,
finding/disarming a trap, stealing from some being, identifying an object,
etc.

Gained experience is based primarily on the difference in levels between
"opponents," experience point value of a "vanquished foe," the values of
the associated stats of the skill being used and two factors that are set
internally. (Note: If you want to know more about this, check out the
skills_developers.doc.)

Below the algorithm for experience gain is given where player "pl" has
"vanquished" opponent "op" using skill "sk:"

   EXP GAIN = (EXP(op) + EXP(sk)) * lvl_mult * stat_mult

where C<EXP(sk)> is a constant award based on the skill used, C<EXP(op)> is the
base experience award for "op" which depends on what op is (see below),
stat_mult is taken from table experience modification, and lvl_mult is:

For C<< level(pl)> < level(op) >>:

   lvl_mult = FACTOR(sk) * (level(op) - level(pl))

For C<< level(pl) = level(op) >>:

   lvl_mult = FACTOR(sk)

For C<< level(pl) > level(op) >>:

   lvl_mult = (level(op)/level(pl));

where C<level(op)> is the level of "op," level (pl) is the level of the
player, and C<FACTOR(sk)> is an internal factor based on the skill used by
"pl."

There are three different cases for how EXP (op) can be computed:

=over 4

=item op is a living creature: EXP(op) is just the base experience award
given in the spoiler.

=item op is a trap: EXP(op) = 1/(fraction of the time which the trap is
visible). Thus, traps which are highly visible get lower values.

=item op is not a trap but is non-living: EXP(op) = internal experience
award of the item. Also, the lvl_mult is multiplied by any magic
enchantment on the item.

=back

=head1 How skills are used

=over 4

=item B<< skills >> This command lists all the player's current known
skills, their level of use and the associated experience category of each
skill.

=item B<< ready_skill I<skill> >> This command changes the player's current
readied skill to <skill>.

=item B<< use_skill I<skill> I<string> >> This command changes the player's
current readied skill and then executes it in the facing direction of the
player. Similar in action to the invoke command.

=back

Three player commands are related to skills use: L<ready_skill>,
L<use_skill>, and L<skills|command/skills>. Generally, a player will use
a skill by first readying the right one, with the ready_skill command and
then making a ranged "attack" to activate the skill; using most skills is
just like firing a wand or a bow. In a few cases however, a skill is be
used just by having it readied. For example, the mountaineer skill allows
favorable movement though hilly terrain while it is readied.

To change to a new skill, a player can use either the B<use_skill> or
B<ready_skill> commands, but note that the use of several common items can
automatically change the player's current skill too. Examples of this
include readying a bow (which will cause the code to make the player's
current skill missile_weapons) or readying a melee weapon (current skill
auto-matically becomes melee weapons). Also, some player actions can cause
a change in the current skill. Running into a monster while you have a
readied weapon in your inventory causes the code to automatically make our
current skill melee weapons. As another example of this-casting a spell
will cause the code to switch the current skill to wizardry or praying (as
appropriate to the spell type).

It is not possible to use more than one skill at a time.

=head2 Acquiring skills

Skills may be gained in two ways. In the first, new skills may
learned. This is done by reading a L<skill scroll>
and the process is very similar to learning a spell. Just as in attempts
to learn incantations, success in learning skills is dependent on a random
test based on the learner's INT. Using your INT stat, look in the learn%
column in table primary stat effects to find your % chance of learning a
skill. Once you hit 100%, you will always be successfull in learning new
skills.

The acquisition of a skill tool will also allow the player to use a new
skill. An example of a skill tool is "lockpicks" lockpicks (which allow
the player to pick door locks). The player merely applies the skill tool
in order to gain use of the new skill. If the tool is unapplied, the
player loses the use of the skill associated with the tool.

After a new skill is gained (either learned or if player has an applied
skill tool) it will appear on the player's skill roster (use the 'skills
command to view its status). If the new skill is an associated skill,
then it will automatically be gained at the player's current level in the
appropriate experience category.

For example, Stilco the Wraith, who is 5th level in agility, buys a set of
lockpicks and applies them. He may now use the skill lockpicking at 5th
level of ability since that is an agility associated skill.

=head1 Authors

Parts of this document were originally compiled, edited, and written by
Brian Thomas, Klaus Elsbernd, and John W. Klar. Additional information
compiled by Maciej Kalisiak, Gorlin, Anton Oussik and Gene Alexander.

Adapted for use by I<deliantra>, enhanced and corrected by Pippijn van
Steenhoven and Marc A. Lehmann.

