=head1 X<tip_of_the_day>Tips of the Day

This section contains the Tips of the Day, ordered by most important to
least important.

=head2 Tutorial

For first time users of Deliantra, consider skimming through the
L<tutorial>. You can also access it by pressing the B<Help> button at the
top.

=head2 Apply and Examine Keys

The B<Spacebar> usually applies the topmost object on the ground, while
the B<Return> (or B<Enter>) key examines it. See L<the keyboard|the_keyboard>
for more keyboard mappings.

=head2 The Completer

You can type most commands by simply typing an B<abbreviation> whenever the
play area has the keyboard focus.  See L<the keyboard|the_keyboard>
for more info.

=head2 The Mouse

The left mouse button usually B<examines> an item. The middle mouse
button usually B<applies> an item (which can mean a lot of things, such
as drinking, wearing, wielding and so on). The right mouse button usually
opens a B<menu> with further options. For example, the right-mouse-button
menu of the playing area gives you quick access to the playerbook and
autopickup, while the RMB-menu in the skills window lets you create key
bindings for using skills.

=head2 Autopickup

You can let your character automatically pick up stuff when you are moving
over a L<map space|glossary/space>: First select which items to pick up in the
B<Setup/Pickup> window, then enable/disable it using the right mouse
button menu of the playing area.

It's customary to disable autopickup in civilised areas, to reduce the
risk of taking an item you should not pick up.

=head2 Moving the Map

You can move the map (I<not> the minimap) around by dragging it with the
middle mouse button. This is useful when you rearrange your windows and
want to move the center of the map.

=head2 Chat 

You can communicate with other players via the "Chat" tab in the
"Messages" window. Chat can be heard by anyone and anywhere. You can also
chat by simply typing C<c some text>+return, without having to activate
the Chat entry.

=head2 Basic commands

You can B<move> around using arrow keys, B<pickup> items via "," (the
comma-key), B<run> and attack by holding down control and an arrow-key,
and B<fire> by holding down shift and an arrow key.

=head2 Weight

Each item has some weight, and having a lot of items in you inventory may
B<slow> you down.

=head2 Food

All characters (well, almost all) need to eat sometimes, watch the food
bar to keep yourself fed.

=head2 Depletion

If your stats are damaged (depleted) you should use potion of life to
B<restore> them.

=head2 Signs and other Textual Information

B<Reading> all kinds of things is important in this game. It could provide
valuable advice or even save your life.

=head2 Shops

Specialized shops B<pay well> for the items they are interested in and pay 
almost B<nothing> for items which are not of their kind.

=head2 Identification of Items

Selling items B<identified> may be more profitable than selling them plain.
You can do it via spells, scrolls, altars and other means.

=head2 Stuck 

If you don't know how to exit a location you can try to B<use>
transportation spells, B<ask> for help in chat, or as last resort, type
the B<"suicide"> command.

=head2 Money 

The most common currencies in Deliantra are silver coins, gold coins and
platinum coins, which you can exchange in a bank. Also, other types of
currencies are present in game.

=head2 Talking 

Talk to B<all> NPC (the ones with a speech bubble): not only it will help
you to become familiar with game world, but they are also a source of
B<quests> and B<treasure> hints.

=head2 Death and Beyond 

Don't become upset when you die, you'll be I<resurrected> at the last
B<bed of reality> you used, after having paid some B<penalty>. To negate
the penalty you can try to B<play a game> with Death.

=head2 Saving

You must leave the game via "beds to reality", or savebeds, as they are
usually called. If you simply disconnect, then monsters can do a harm to
you.

Usually, these savebeds could be found in inns, houses and so on. Also,
these B<beds for reality> are "markers" where you will be resurrected
after your death.

If you disconnect or are disconnected without having used a savebed,
you'll have about 30 minutes to reconnect.

=head2 Exploration 

It is very useful (but also interesting :) ) to B<explore> the country. Don't 
visit a couple of dungeons on and on, try to find new ones!

=head2 Illumination 

Deliantra has light levels and these light levels are changing with time,
and some dungeons can be very dark. To be comfortable with it, you can use
B<lanterns>, or B<torches> with flint and steel.

=head2 Newbie area 

After character creation you'll start in a newbie area. You shouldn't try to 
leave it early, before you are at least level 5 (some characters may take 
more or less than that).

=head2 Diseases 

You can catch a disease via traps, monsters, other players and just by
visiting contaminated areas. All low-level diseases wear off with time,
but it is recommended to B<cure> them quickly. Although, if you survive
long enough, you can acquire B<immunity> to that disease.

=head2 Magic Resistances 

Some monsters are unaffected by attacks of a certain type. For
example, fire dragons cannot be hurt by fire. Try the opposite element
instead. Experiment.

=head2 Poisoning 

You can get poisoned via a bite of venomous creatures or magic attacks. In
this case, you'll start loosing you HP and your food consumption rate will
increase. You can try to B<wait> until it wears off, or try to B<remove>
it via spells or potions.

=head2 Player Shop 

You can sell B<interesting> or B<unique> items to other players. Please,
don't fill it with regular junk and put each type of item in the section
it deserves.

=head2 Quests 

Quests in Deliantra are B<unique> compared to other MMORPGs. You'll never
see two similar quests or something like "Kill 20 silver bugs" or "Kill
30 golden bugs". No hours of mobslaying! Each quest requires creative
approach. You can get your first quests in the B<palace> or at the B<quest
master>.

=head2 Arrows 

You can buy B<unlimited> amounts of arrows in specialized archer shops.

=head2 Binding 

It is vital to B<bind> keys to some actions, such as applying healing
potion to a key. You can do that by using the right-mouse-button popup
menu on items, skills and spells, but also by recording a macro, or by
writing it by hand.


=head1 X<tooltip>Tooltips

This section contains some of the tooltips of the Deliantra client.

=head2 X<modifier_box>Keyboard Modifiers

This box shows which keyboard modifiers (Shift, Ctrl etc.) are currently
active ("pressed").

=head3 B<once/REPEAT>

C<Ctrl> determines wether an action invoked via the keyboard (moving,
firing) is executed once per keypress or repeatedly as fast as
possible.

In I<once> mode, each time you press a key, your character will try to
execute the action once. If you try to execute actions faster than your
character is able to, the actions will be queued.

In I<REPEAT> mode, your character keep executing the action as long as you
keep the keys pressed, as fast as it is able to do. This allows you to run
faster with a fast character, but msot importantly enables you to stop
immediately, as no matter how fast your character is, stopping to press
the keys will stop your character.

=head3 B<move/FIRE>

C<Shift> determines wether you move or fire when pressing an arrow key.
For example, when you have applied a bow, then pressing C<Shift>-Arrow
will firean arrow instead of moving your character. Less obviously, this
also works for anything else in your range slot, such as spells or skills.

=head3 B<alt>

Shows wether the C<Alt> key is pressed or not. The Alt key can be used
together with the arrow keys to achieve diagonal movement. It is also
commonly used to define keyboard macros.

=head3 B<num>

C<NumLock> isn't used by Deliantra, but on the Windows Operating System,
having it on can make it impossible to use the B<numeric keypad> for
moving or firing. Likewise having it off on Mac OS X might cause problems
with diagonal movement, so when you encounter keyboard issues, try to
toggle NumLock.

=head2 X<stat_health>

B<Health points>. Measures of how much damage you can take before
dying. Hit points are determined from your overall level and are
influenced by the value of your Con stat. Hp value may range between 1
to beyond 500, and higher values indicate a greater ability to withstand
punishment.

=head2 X<stat_mana>

B<Mana (Spell points)>. Measures of how much "fuel" you have for casting
spells and incantations. Mana is calculated from your highest magic skill
school level and your Pow. Mana values can range between 1 to beyond 500
(glowing crystals can increase the current spell points beyond your normal
maximum). Higher values indicate greater amounts of mana.

=head2 X<stat_grace>

B<Grace points> - how favored you are by your god. In game terms, how
much divine magic (prayers) you can cast. Your praying level, Wis and Pow
effect what the value of grace is. Praying on an altar of your god can
increase this value to twice your normal maximum. Grace can take on large
positive and negative values. Positive values indicate favor by the gods.

=head2 X<stat_food>

B<Food>. Ranges between 0 (starving) and 999 (satiated). If it reaches 0
and your character cannot find some food to eat (e.g. in your inventory),
it begins to die (health points decrease). Some magic can speed up or slow
down the character digestion. Healing wounds will speed up digestion too.

=head2 X<stat_exp>

B<Experience points and overall level> - experience is increased as a
reward for appropriate action (such as killing monsters) and may decrease
as a result of a magical attack or dying. Level is directly derived
from the experience value. As the level of the character increases, the
character becomes able to succeed at more difficult tasks. A character's
level starts at a value of 1 and may range up beyond 100.

=head2 X<stat_ranged>

B<Attack Slots> - how you attack when you fire (shift-direction, spell,
skill etc.) - your range slot, or you walk/run into something - your
combat slot. You can apply both a ranged attack weapon (such as a spell,
horn, rod, bow etc.) and a combat attack weapon (such as a sword, knife
etc.) at the same time, but only one of them - marked with a C<*> - will
be wielded at any one time. You can quickly toggle between the two slots
by using C<KP-Plus>, but usually the server will automatically switch
between the two slots as needed.

=head2 X<stat_Str>

B<Physical Strength>, determines damage dealt with weapons, how much you
can carry, and how often you can attack.

=head2 X<stat_Dex>

B<Dexterity>, your physical agility. Determines chance of being hit and
affects armor class and speed.

=head2 X<stat_Con>

B<Constitution>, physical health and toughness. Determines how many
healthpoints you can have.

=head2 X<stat_Int>

B<Intelligence>, your ability to learn and use skills and incantations
(both prayers and magic) and determines how much spell points you can have.

=head2 X<stat_Wis>

B<Wisdom>, the ability to learn and use divine magic (prayers). Determines
how many grace points you can have.

=head2 X<stat_Pow>

B<Power>, your magical potential. Influences the strength of spell
effects, and also how much your spell and grace points increase when
leveling up.

=head2 X<stat_Cha>

B<Charisma>, how well you are received by NPCs. Affects buying and
selling prices in shops, the L<oratory|skill_description/oratory> and
L<singing|skill_description/singing> skills and a few other things.

=head2 X<stat_Wc>

B<Weapon Class>, effectiveness of melee/missile attacks. Lower is more
potent. Current weapon, level and Str are some things which effect the
value of Wc. The value of Wc may range between 25 and -72.

=head2 X<stat_Ac>

B<Armour Class>, how protected you are from being hit by any attack. Lower
values are better. Ac is based on your race and is modified by the Dex and
current armour worn. For characters that cannot wear armour, Ac improves
as their level increases.

=head2 X<stat_Dam>

B<Damage>, how much damage your melee/missile attack inflicts. Higher
values indicate a greater amount of damage will be inflicted with each
attack.

=head2 X<stat_Arm>

B<Armour>, how much damage (from physical attacks) will be subtracted from
successful hits made upon you. This value ranges between 0 to 99%. Current
armour worn primarily determines Arm value. This is the same as the
physical resistance.

=head2 X<stat_Spd>

B<Speed>, how fast you can move. The value roughly means how many
movements per second you can make. It may range between nearly 0 ("very
slow") to higher than 40 ("lightning fast"). Base speed is determined from
the Dex stat and modified downward proportionally by the amount of weight
carried which exceeds the Max Carry limit. The armour worn also sets the
upper limit on speed.

=head2 X<stat_WSp>

B<Weapon Speed>, how many attacks you may make per second when combatting.
Higher values indicate faster attack speed. Current weapon and Dex effect
the value of weapon speed.

=head2 X<npc_message_entry>

Enter a message here that you want to tell the NPC and press B<return>.

Sometimes you have to tell an NPC something you cannot find out during a
normal conversation (such as a password). In those cases you have to use
this text entry. You can also enter responses manually instead of using
the response buttons below.

=head2 X<completer_help>The Command Completer

This is your central interface to send text commands to the server.  To
enter a verbatim command to send to the server, just type the command,
followed by a space, and press return.

Typing the initial letters of words (or just any letters) displays guesses
for commands you might want to use.

You can use the cursor-up and cursor-down keys to select between those
guesses.

B<Right-Click> opens a menu where you can select further options, sich
as redefining key bindings.

=head2 X<charcreation_focus>

Press a key (click on the entry to make sure it has keyboard focus)


=head1 X<ui>User Interface Text Fragments

This section just contains some longer text fragment used by the
Deliantra client.

=head2 X<chargen_stats>Character Creation: Stats

B<Stats> are a very important aspect of your character. You can use the
tooltips to learn what each Stat governs.

The stats generated by the server are always sorted from Str (highest) to
Cha (lowest).  They will be modified later by both the race and the class
you choose.

You can create another set of stats, swap two stat values with each other
or accept the stats as shown below and continue.

=head2 X<chargen_race>Character Creation: Race

You can look at another race, or accept this race (you will cycle back
to this race eventually, so you can take your time making this important
choice.

