=pod

=head1 NAME

DTA::TokWrap::Intro - a gentle introduction to the DTA::TokWrap distribution

=cut

##======================================================================
=pod

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The DTA::TokWrap perl distribution contains various modules
for operations associated with the tokenization of DTA "base-format" XML documents.
The distribution is divided into 1 program and 3 main modules:

=over 4

=item dta-tokwrap.perl

Top-level command-line interface.  Use this if you can.
See L<dta-tokwrap.perl(1)|dta-tokwrap.perl> for details.

=item Module DTA::TokWrap

Top-level wrappers for persistent data associated with document tokenization.
Encapsulates all default L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor|/"DTA::TokWrap::Processor">
sub-processor objects.
See L<the DTA::TokWrap section|/DTA::TokWrap> for more details.

=item Module DTA::TokWrap::Document

Top-level wrappers for per-document data, including temporary files, indices,
and in-memory data structures.
See L<the DTA::TokWrap::Document section|/DTA::TokWrap::Document> for more details.

=item Module DTA::TokWrap::Processor

Abstraction level for processing operations on document data.
See L<the DTA::TokWrap::Processor section|/DTA::TokWrap::Document> for more details.

=back

These and other included modules are briefly described in the
L</MODULES> section, below.

=cut

##======================================================================
=pod

=head1 MODULES

The following sections are intended to give a brief overview of the modules
included with this distribution.

=cut

##--------------------------------------------------------------
=pod

=head2 DTA::TokWrap

The DTA::TokWrap module provides top-level object-oriented wrappers
for (batch) tokenization of DTA "base-format" XML documents.
DTA::TokWrap objects encapsulate all default
L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor|/DTA::TokWrap::Processor> objects under a
single object.  Most document processing should proceed via
a DTA::TokWrap object.

See L<DTA::TokWrap(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap> for more details.

=cut

##--------------------------------------------------------------
=pod

=head2 DTA::TokWrap::Document

DTA::TokWrap::Document provides a perl class for representing
a single DTA base-format XML file and associated indices, temporary files,
and stand-off files.
Together with the L<DTA::TokWrap|/DTA::TokWrap> module, this
class comprises the top-level API of the DTA::TokWrap distribution.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Document(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Document> for more details.

=head3 DTA::TokWrap::Document::Maker

B<***DEPRECATED***>

DTA::TokWrap::Document::Maker provides an experimental
L<DTA::TokWrap::Document|/DTA::TokWrap::Document>
subclass which attempts to perform C<make>-like dependency
tracking on document data keys.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Document::Maker(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Document::Maker> for more details.

=cut

##--------------------------------------------------------------
=pod

=head2 DTA::TokWrap::Processor

The DTA::TokWrap::Processor package provides an abstract base class
which subsumes document-processing modules included in the DTA::TokWrap
distribution.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Processor>
for details on the API.

=head3 DTA::TokWrap::Processor::mkindex

DTA::TokWrap::Processor::mkindex provides an object-oriented
L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor|/DTA::TokWrap::Processor> wrapper
around the F<dtatw-mkindex> C program
for L<DTA::TokWrap::Document|/DTA::TokWrap::Document> objects.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor::mkindex(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Processor::mkindex>
for details.


=head3 DTA::TokWrap::Processor::mkbx0

DTA::TokWrap::Processor::mkindex provides an object-oriented
L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor|/DTA::TokWrap::Processor> wrapper
for
hint insertion and serialization sort-key generation
on a text-free "structure index" (.sx) XML file.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor::mkbx0(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Processor::mkbx0>
for details.


=head3 DTA::TokWrap::Processor::mkbx

DTA::TokWrap::Processor::mkbx provides an object-oriented
L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor|/DTA::TokWrap::Processor> wrapper
for the creation of in-memory serialized text-block-indices.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor::mkbx(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Processor::mkbx>
for details.


=head3 DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize

This class is just an abstract placeholder for a
low-level tokenizer. By default, it attempts automatically detect
a supported tokenizer on your system (preferably moot/WASTE).
Depending on your needs, you may wish to use e.g.
L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize::waste|DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize::waste>
or
L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize::http|DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize::http>
directly, or to set the package variable
L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize|$DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize::DEFAULT_SUBCLASS>
to the default tokenizer subclass name for your system.

DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize provides an object-oriented
L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor|/DTA::TokWrap::Processor> wrapper
for the tokenization of serialized text files
for L<DTA::TokWrap::Document|/DTA::TokWrap::Document> objects.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize>
for details.


=head3 DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize::dummy

DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize::dummy provides a package-local
alternative to the "official" low-level tokenizer class
L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize|DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize>.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize::dummy(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize::dummy>
for details.

=head3 DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize1

DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize1 provides an object-oriented
L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor|/DTA::TokWrap::Processor> wrapper
for some required and/or optional post-processing of tokenized files
used by L<DTA::TokWrap::Document|/DTA::TokWrap::Document> objects.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize1(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tokenize1>
for details.

=head3 DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tok2xml

DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tok2xml provides an object-oriented
L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor|/DTA::TokWrap::Processor> wrapper
for converting "raw" CSV-format (.t) low-level tokenizer output
to a "master" tokenized XML (.t.xml) format,
for use with L<DTA::TokWrap::Document|/DTA::TokWrap::Document> objects.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tok2xml(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Processor::tok2xml>
for details.


=head3 DTA::TokWrap::Processor::standoff

B<***OBSOLETE***>

DTA::TokWrap::Processor::standoff provides an object-oriented
L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor|/DTA::TokWrap::Processor> wrapper
for generation of various standoff XML formats
for L<DTA::TokWrap::Document|/DTA::TokWrap::Document> objects.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor::standoff(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Processor::standoff>
for details.

=head3 DTA::TokWrap::Processor::addws

DTA::TokWrap::Processor::standoff provides an object-oriented
L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor|/DTA::TokWrap::Processor> wrapper
for splicing tokenization data (word- and sentence-boundaries)
back into a source TEI-XML file, potentially fragmenting
words and/or sentences in the process.  Each segment is assigned
a unique id, and fragmented segments are associated using the TEI
C<prev> and C<next> attributes.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor::addws(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Processor::addws>
for details.

=head3 DTA::TokWrap::Processor::idsplice

DTA::TokWrap::Processor::standoff provides an object-oriented
L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor|/DTA::TokWrap::Processor> wrapper
for splicing stand-off data into a base XML file by matching ids.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor::idsplice(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Processor::idsplice>
for details.


=cut

##--------------------------------------------------------------
=pod

=head2 DTA::TokWrap::Base

DTA::TokWrap::Base provides an abstract base class for all object classes
in the
DTA::TokWrap distribution

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Base(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Base>
for details.

=head2 DTA::TokWrap::CxData

DTA::TokWrap::CxData provides utilities for binary I/O on dta-tokwrap *.cx
files.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::CxData(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::CxData>
for details.

=head2 DTA::TokWrap::Logger

DTA::TokWrap::Logger provides an abstract base class for
object-oriented access to the Log::Log4perl logging facility.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Logger(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Logger>
for details.

=head2 DTA::TokWrap::Utils

DTA::TokWrap::Utils provides diverse assorted miscellaneous utilities
which don't fit well anywhere else and which don't on their own justify
the creation of a new package.

See L<DTA::TokWrap::Logger(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Logger>
for details.

=head2 DTA::TokWrap::Version

Version constants for DTA::TokWrap.
Intended for (direct) use only by DTA::TokWrap sub-modules.

=cut


##======================================================================
=pod

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<dta-tokwrap.perl(1)|dta-tokwrap.perl>,
L<DTA::TokWrap(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap>,
L<DTA::TokWrap::Document(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Document>,
L<DTA::TokWrap::Processor(3pm)|DTA::TokWrap::Processor>,
...

=head1 AUTHOR

Bryan Jurish E<lt>moocow@cpan.orgE<gt>

=cut
