=head1 NAME

Data::Hopen::G - Namespace for graph-related items in hopen

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Almost everything graph-related in hopen lives under C<Data::Hopen::G>.  This
includes nodes, edges, and graphs (specifically, directed acyclic graphs,
DAGs).

Classes are (all under C<Data::Hopen::G>):

    Entity - something in the graph
        Runnable - something that has a run() method and need/want namesets
                    (TODO should this be a Role::Tiny role?)
            Link - connection between Nodes
            Node - abstract graph node
                Op - abstract operation
                    Goal - a node that just gives a name to a set of operations
                    PassthroughOp - no-op concrete operation
                    DAG - the graph

Specific use cases of the graph are not under C<...::G>, such as
tools used in the hopen build system (L<App::hopen>).

=head1 ELEMENTS

=head2 C<Data::Hopen::G::Op>

An operation.  Operations can, e.g., transform their inputs or invoke a
generator routine (L<Data::Hopen::Gen>) based on their inputs.  Operations
can output values representing the generator action they took, or that will
later be used by the generator or downstream nodes.

=head2 C<Data::Hopen::G::Link>

A connection between operations.  Edges should, generally speaking, B<not>
invoke generator routines.  Instead, they should transform their inputs to
outputs, possibly with reference to the environment or (if necessary) the
B<identity> (but not details) of the generator in use.

=head2 C<Data::Hopen::G::DAG>

A graph of operations and edges.  Every relationship between operations and
edges is expressed in a DAG.  A DAG has zero or more goals
(L<Data::Hopen::G::Goal>) that represent named activities expressed
in the DAG.

=cut
