=head1 NAME

UI::Dialog::Backend::Nautilus - wrapper around the data provided by the nautilus(1).

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use UI::Dialog::Backend::Nautilus;
 my $nautilus = new UI::Dialog::Backend::Nautilus ();
 my @paths = $nautilus->paths();

=head1 ABSTRACT

UI::Dialog::Backend::Nautilus is simply an OOPerl wrapper around the
data provided by the nautilus(1) file manager's scripts feature.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

nautilus(1) is a GNOME file manager that has a "right-click" menu for
user made scripts (found in the user's ~/.gnome2/nautilus-scripts/
directory). This is an OOPerl interface to the environment variables
provided to the scripts during runtime by nautilus. When you use any of
the UI::Dialog meta classes (UI::Dialog, UI::Dialog::GNOME, etc.) access
to this backend is provided via the $d->nautilus method. ie: replace
$nautilus with $d->nautilus in the synopsis example (provided you made
$d with something like my $d = new UI::Dialog...). Also, UI::Dialog and
friends only load this module when you first use the $d->nautilus method
(this may silently fail, but you can test by ref() for success).

=head1 EXPORT

=over 2

 None

=back

=head1 INHERITS

=over 2

 None

=back

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=head2 new( @options )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 my $nautilus = new UI::Dialog::Backend::Nautilus ();

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

This is the Class Constructor method. It accepts a list of key => value pairs
and uses them as the defaults when interacting with the various widgets.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

A blessed object reference of the UI::Dialog::Backend::Nautilus class.

=back

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 path( )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 my $path = $nautilus->path();

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

This method examines the NAUTILUS_SCRIPT_CURRENT_URI string uri
unescapes and strips it of any prefixing protocol indicators (file://)
then returns the modified string.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

 a SCALAR.

=back

=back

=head2 paths( )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 my @paths = $nautilus->paths();

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

This method splits the NAUTILUS_SCRIPT_SELECTED_FILE_PATHS multiline
string and returns the ARRAY of selections in the order provided by
nautilus.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

 an ARRAY.

=back

=back

=head2 uri( )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 my $uri = $nautilus->uri();

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

This simply returns the NAUTILUS_SCRIPT_CURRENT_URI string.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

 a SCALAR.

=back

=back

=head2 uris( )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 my @uris = $nautilus->uris();

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

This method splits the NAUTILUS_SCRIPT_SELECTED_URIS multiline
string and returns the ARRAY of selections in the order provided by
nautilus. This does not uri escape or unescape the string.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

 an ARRAY.

=back

=back

=head2 geometry( )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 my ($h,$w,$x,$y) = $nautilus->geometry();

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

This method splits the NAUTILUS_SCRIPT_WINDOW_GEOMETRY string and returns
and ARRAY of the geometry details provided by nautilus. The array returned
contains the following (in order):

 height
 width
 X-coordinate
 Y-coordinate

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

 an ARRAY.

=back

=back

=head2 uri_unescape( )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 my $path = $nautilus->uri_unescape( "file:///path/to/somewhere" );
 my @paths = $nautilus->uri_unescape( "file:///path/to/somewhere",
				      "file:///yet/another/path" );

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

This is the method used to unescape the NAUTILUS_SCRIPT_CURRENT_URI in
the path() method. This method is derived from the URI::Escape module which
is not included in the Perl core modules yet is vitally necessary for the
path() method to function in a useful manor.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

an ARRAY or a SCALAR depending on the calling arguments.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 2

=item PERLDOC

 UI::Dialog
 UI::Dialog::Backend

=back

=over 2

=item MAN FILES

 nautilus(1)

=back

=head1 BUGS

 Please email the author with any bug reports. Include the name of the
 module in the subject line.

=head1 AUTHOR

 Kevin C. Krinke, E<lt>kevin@krinke.caE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

 Copyright (C) 2004-2016  Kevin C. Krinke <kevin@krinke.ca>

 This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
 modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
 License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
 version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

 This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
 Lesser General Public License for more details.

 You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
 License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
 Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA

=cut
