=head1 NAME

UI::Dialog::Backend::NotifySend - backend for notify-send(1).

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use UI::Dialog::Backend::NotifySend;
  my $ns = new UI::Dialog::Backend::NotifySend ();
  $ns->notify_send( subject => "Subject of notification." );

=head1 ABSTRACT

UI::Dialog::Backend::NotifySend is an OOPerl wrapper for the notify-send(1)
program.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Use this module to notify end-users via the notification daemon (Desktop Notifications).
Requires the notify-send(1) progam to be installed (the libnotify-bin package in Debian).

=head1 EXPORT

=over 2

None

=back

=head1 INHERITS

=over 2

UI::Dialog::Backend

=back

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=head2 new( @options )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 my $ns = new UI::Dialog::Backend::NotifySend ( );

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

This is the Class Constructor method. It accepts a list of key => value pairs
and uses them as the defaults when interacting with the various widgets. All
methods accept the same arguments as new() except that the arguments passed to
the methods are temporarily used instead of making them the default as the
new() method does.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

A blessed object reference of the UI::Dialog::Backend::NotifySend class.

=back

=item OPTIONS

The (...)'s after each option indicate the default for the option. An * denotes
support by all the widget methods on a per-use policy defaulting to the
values decided during object creation.

=over 6

=item B<expire-time = \d+> (0) *

=item B<urgency = (low|normal|critical)> ('normal') *

=item B<app-name = \w+> (none) *

=item B<icon = ICON[,ICON...]> (none) *

=item B<category = TYPE[,TYPE...]> (none) *

=item B<hint = TYPE:NAME:VALUE> (none) *

=back

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 notify_send( )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 $ns->notify_send( subject => "Notification subject",
                   body => "Some text to display" );

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

Display a notification to the end user.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

Nothing.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 2

=item PERLDOC

 UI::Dialog
 UI::Dialog::Backend

=back

=over 2

=item MAN FILES

osd_cat(1)

=back

=head1 BUGS

Please email the author with any bug reports. Include the name of the
module in the subject line.

=head1 AUTHOR

Kevin C. Krinke, E<lt>kevin@krinke.caE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

 Copyright (C) 2004-2016  Kevin C. Krinke <kevin@krinke.ca>

 This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
 modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
 License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
 version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

 This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
 Lesser General Public License for more details.

 You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
 License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
 Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA

=cut
