
=head1 NAME

CGI::Application::Plugin::OpenTracing::DataDog - Simple CGI with DataDog tracing



=head1 VERSION

This is version 'v0.1.0'



=head1 SYNOPSIS

    package My::CGI::App;
    
    use base 'CGI::Application';
    use CGI::Application::Plugin::OpenTracing::DataDog
        default_resource_name => 'my/index.cgi'
    ;



=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module will make integrations for L<CGI::Application> based services even
more convenient for those using DataDog as backend.



=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES



=head2 C<OPENTRACING_IMLEMENTATION>

Set this one explitly to C<NoOp> to disable tracing. That is, the NoOp-Tracer is
preventing code braakage but does not do much and certainly not send data across
the network.

Use this as DevOps to disable tracing with DataDog.

This is opposite behavior compared to L<CGI::Application::Plugin::OpenTracing>,
where it explictely needs to be set to enable tracing with a specific tracer
implememtatation and fall back to NoOp.

Setting this to anything else then C<NoOp> or C<DataDog> will cause compilation
errors.



=head1 CAVEAT

At bootstrap the C<default_resource_name> MUST be set to a non empty string. Not
doing so will be considered as a breaking error.



=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<OpenTracing::Implementation::DataDog>

Sending traces to DataDog using Agent.

=item L<CGI::Application::Plugin::OpenTracing>

Use OpenTracing in CGI Applications

=item L<OpenTracing::Manual::Instrumentation>

For Application developers and Devops

=back



=head1 AUTHOR

Theo van Hoesel <tvanhoesel@perceptyx.com>



=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

'CGI::Application::Plugin::OpenTracing::DataDog'
is Copyright (C) 2020, Perceptyx Inc

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

This package is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but it is
provided "as is" and without any express or implied warranties.

For details, see the full text of the license in the file LICENSE.


=cut
