# Copyright (c) 2003-2017 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

########################################################################
########################################################################

=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Lang::catalan - Catalan language support.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This module contains a list of words and expressions supporting
the language. It is not intended to be used directly (other
Date::Manip modules will load it as needed).

=head1 LANGUAGE EXPRESSIONS

The following is a list of all language words and expressions used
to write times and/or dates.

All strings are case insensitive.

=over 4

=item B<Month names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the month, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following month names may be used:

   Gener

   Febrer

   Març
   Marc

   Abril

   Maig

   Juny

   Juliol

   Agost

   Setembre

   Octubre

   Novembre

   Desembre


The following abbreviations may be used:

   Gen
   gen.

   Feb
   febr
   feb.
   febr.

   Mar
   mar.

   Abr
   abr.

   Mai
   mai.

   Jun
   jun.

   Jul
   jul.

   Ago
   ag
   ago.
   ag.

   Set
   set.

   Oct
   oct.

   Nov
   nov.

   Des
   Dec
   des.
   dec.


=item B<Day names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the day, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following day names may be used:

   Dilluns

   Dimarts

   Dimecres

   Dijous

   Divendres

   Dissabte

   Diumenge


The following abbreviations may be used:

   Dll
   dl.
   dl

   Dmt
   Dim
   dt.
   dt

   Dmc
   Dic
   dc.
   dc

   Dij
   dj.
   dj

   Div
   dv.
   dv

   Dis
   ds.
   ds

   Diu
   dg.
   dg


The following short (1-2 characters) abbreviations may be used:

   Dl
   L

   Dm
   M
   t

   Dc
   X
   c

   Dj
   J

   Dv
   V

   Ds
   S

   Du
   U
   g


=item B<Delta field names>

These are the names (and abbreviations) for the fields in a delta.  There are
7 fields: years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds.

The names and abbreviations for these fields are:

   anys
   a
   an
   any

   mes
   m
   me
   ms

   setmanes
   s
   se
   set
   setm
   setmana

   dies
   d
   dia

   hores
   h
   ho
   hora

   minuts
   mn
   min
   minut

   segons
   s
   seg
   segon


=item B<Morning/afternoon times>

This is a list of expressions use to designate morning or afternoon time
when a time is entered as a 12-hour time rather than a 24-hour time.
For example, in English, the time "17:00" could be specified as "5:00 PM".

Morning and afternoon time may be designated by the following sets of
words:

   AM
   A.M.
   de la matinada

   PM
   P.M.
   de la tarda


=item B<Each or every>

There are a list of words that specify every occurrence of something.  These
are used in the following phrases:

   EACH Monday
   EVERY Monday
   EVERY month

The following words may be used:

   cadascuna
   cada
   cadascun


=item B<Next/Previous/Last occurrence>

There are a list of words that may be used to specify the next,
previous, or last occurrence of something.  These words could be used
in the following phrases:

   NEXT week

   LAST Tuesday
   PREVIOUS Tuesday

   LAST day of the month

The following words may be used:

Next occurrence:

   proper
   seguent
   següent


Previous occurrence:

   passat
   proppassat
   anterior


Last occurrence:

   darrer
   darrera
   ultim
   últim
   ultima
   última
   passat


=item B<Delta words for going forward/backward in time>

When parsing deltas, there are words that may be used to specify
the the delta will refer to a time in the future or to a time in
the past (relative to some date).  In English, for example, you
might say:

   IN 5 days
   5 days AGO

The following words may be used to specify deltas that refer to
dates in the past or future respectively:

   fa

   d'aqui a
   d'aquí a
   mes tard
   més tard


=item B<Business mode>

This contains two lists of words which can be used to specify a standard
(i.e. non-business) delta or a business delta.

Previously, it was used to tell whether the delta was approximate or exact,
but now this list is not used except to force the delta to be standard.

The following words may be used:

   exactament
   approximadament


The following words may be used to specify a business delta:

   empresa


=item B<Numbers>

Numbers may be spelled out in a variety of ways.  The following sets correspond
to the numbers from 1 to 53:

   1er
   primer
   un

   2n
   segon
   dos

   3r
   tercer
   tres

   4t
   quart
   quatre

   5è
   5e
   cinque
   Cinquè
   cinc

   6è
   6e
   sise
   sisè
   sis

   7è
   7e
   sete
   setè
   set

   8è
   8e
   vuite
   vuitè
   vuit

   9è
   9e
   nove
   novè
   nou

   10è
   10e
   dese
   desè
   deu


   11è
   11e
   onze
   onzè

   12è
   12e
   dotze
   dotzè

   13è
   13e
   tretze
   tretzè

   14è
   14e
   catorze
   catorzè

   15è
   15e
   quinze
   quinzè

   16è
   16e
   setze
   setzè

   17è
   17e
   dissete
   dissetè
   disset

   18è
   18e
   divuite
   divuitè
   divuit

   19è
   19e
   dinove
   dinovèe
   dinou

   20è
   20e
   vinte
   vintè
   vint


   21è
   21e
   vint-i-une
   vint-i-unè
   vint-i-u

   22è
   22e
   vint-i-dose
   vint-i-dosè
   vint-i-dos

   23è
   23e
   vint-i-trese
   vint-i-tresè
   vint-i-tres

   24è
   24e
   vint-i-quatre
   vint-i-quatrè

   25è
   25e
   vint-i-cinque
   vint-i-cinquè

   26è
   26e
   vint-i-sise
   vint-i-sisè

   27è
   27e
   vint-i-sete
   vint-i-setè

   28è
   28e
   vint-i-vuite
   vint-i-vuitè

   29è
   29e
   vint-i-nove
   vint-i-novè

   30è
   30e
   trente
   trentè
   trenta


   31è
   31e
   trenta-une
   trenta-unè
   trenta-u

   32è
   32e
   trenta-dos

   33è
   33e
   trenta-tres

   34è
   34e
   trenta-quatre

   35è
   35e
   trenta-cinc

   36è
   36e
   trenta-sis

   37è
   37e
   trenta-set
   trenta-setè
   trenta-sete

   38è
   38e
   trenta-vuit

   39è
   39e
   trenta-nou

   40è
   40e
   quaranta


   41è
   41e
   quaranta-un

   42è
   42e
   quaranta-dos

   43è
   43e
   quaranta-tres

   44è
   44e
   quaranta-quatre

   45è
   45e
   quaranta-cinc

   46è
   46e
   quaranta-sis

   47è
   47e
   quaranta-set

   48è
   48e
   quaranta-vuit
   quaranta-vuitena

   49è
   49e
   quaranta-nou

   50è
   50e
   cinquantè
   cinquante


   51è
   51e
   cinquanta-un

   52è
   52e
   cinquanta-dos

   53è
   53e
   cinquanta-tres


=item B<Ignored words>

In writing out dates in common forms, there are a number of words
that are typically not important.

There is frequently a word that appears in a phrase to designate
that a time is going to be specified next.  In English, you would
use the word AT in the example:

   December 3 at 12:00

The following words may be used:

   a les
   a
   al


Another word is used to designate one member of a set.  In English,
you would use the words IN or OF:

   1st day OF December
   1st day IN December

The following words may be used:

   de
   d'


Another word is use to specify that something is on a certain date.  In
English, you would use ON:

   ON July 5th

The following words may be used:

   el


=item B<Words that set the date, time, or both>

There are some words that can be used to specify a date, a
time, or both relative to now.

Words that set the date are similar to the English words 'yesterday'
or 'tomorrow'.  These are specified as a delta which is added to the
current time to get a date.  The time is NOT set however, so the delta
is only partially used (it should only include year, month, week, and
day fields).

The following words may be used:

   abans d'ahir         -0:0:0:2:0:0:0
   ahir                 -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   dema                 +0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   dema passat          +0:0:0:2:0:0:0
   demà                 +0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   demà passat          +0:0:0:2:0:0:0
   idag                 0:0:0:0:0:0:0


Words that set only the time of day are similar to the English words
'noon' or 'midnight'.

The following words may be used:

   migdia               12:00:00
   mitjanit             00:00:00


Words that set the entire time and date (relative to the current
time and date) are also available.

In English, the word 'now' is one of these.

The following words may be used:

   ara                  0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   avui                 0:0:0:0:0:0:0


=item B<Hour/Minute/Second separators>

When specifying the time of day, the most common separator is a colon (:)
which can be used for both separators.

Some languages use different pairs.  For example, French allows you to
specify the time as 13h30:20, so it would use the following pairs:

   : :
   h :

The first column is the hour-minute separator and the second column is
the minute-second separator.  Both are perl regular expressions.  When
creating a new translation, be aware that regular expressions with utf-8
characters may be tricky.  For example, don't include the expression '[x]'
where 'x' is a utf-8 character.

A pair of colons is ALWAY allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
additional pairs, they are listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=item B<Fractional second separator>

When specifying fractional seconds, the most common way is to use a
decimal point (.).  Some languages may specify a different separator
that might be used.  If this is done, it is a regular expression.

The decimal point is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
another separator, it is listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=back

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None known.

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the L<Date::Manip::Problems> documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Date::Manip>       - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
