# Copyright (c) 2001-2021 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

########################################################################
########################################################################

=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Lang::danish - Danish language support.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This module contains a list of words and expressions supporting
the language. It is not intended to be used directly (other
Date::Manip modules will load it as needed).

=head1 LANGUAGE EXPRESSIONS

The following is a list of all language words and expressions used
to write times and/or dates.

All strings are case insensitive.

=over 4

=item B<Month names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the month, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following month names may be used:

   Januar

   Februar

   Marts

   April

   Maj

   Juni

   Juli

   August

   September

   Oktober

   November

   December


The following abbreviations may be used:

   Jan

   Feb

   Mar

   Apr

   Maj

   Jun

   Jul

   Aug

   Sep

   Okt

   Nov

   Dec


=item B<Day names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the day, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following day names may be used:

   Mandag

   Tirsdag

   Onsdag

   Torsdag

   Fredag

   Lørdag
   Lordag

   Søndag
   Sondag


The following abbreviations may be used:

   Man

   Tir

   Ons

   Tor

   Fre

   Lør
   Lor

   Søn
   Son


The following short (1-2 characters) abbreviations may be used:

   M

   Ti

   O

   To

   F

   L

   S


=item B<Delta field names>

These are the names (and abbreviations) for the fields in a delta.  There are
7 fields: years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds.

The names and abbreviations for these fields are:

   ar
   år

   maneder
   måneder
   man
   maned
   mån
   måned

   uger
   u
   uge

   dage
   d
   dag

   timer
   t
   tim
   time

   minutter
   m
   min
   minut

   sekunder
   s
   sek
   sekund


=item B<Morning/afternoon times>

This is a list of expressions use to designate morning or afternoon time
when a time is entered as a 12-hour time rather than a 24-hour time.
For example, in English, the time "17:00" could be specified as "5:00 PM".

Morning and afternoon time may be designated by the following sets of
words:

   FM
   f.m.

   EM
   e.m.


=item B<Each or every>

There are a list of words that specify every occurrence of something.  These
are used in the following phrases:

   EACH Monday
   EVERY Monday
   EVERY month

The following words may be used:

   hver


=item B<Next/Previous/Last occurrence>

There are a list of words that may be used to specify the next,
previous, or last occurrence of something.  These words could be used
in the following phrases:

   NEXT week

   LAST Tuesday
   PREVIOUS Tuesday

   LAST day of the month

The following words may be used:

Next occurrence:

   naste
   næste


Previous occurrence:

   forrige


Last occurrence:

   forrige
   sidste
   nyeste


=item B<Delta words for going forward/backward in time>

When parsing deltas, there are words that may be used to specify
the the delta will refer to a time in the future or to a time in
the past (relative to some date).  In English, for example, you
might say:

   IN 5 days
   5 days AGO

The following words may be used to specify deltas that refer to
dates in the past or future respectively:

   siden

   om
   senere


=item B<Business mode>

This contains two lists of words which can be used to specify a standard
(i.e. non-business) delta or a business delta.

Previously, it was used to tell whether the delta was approximate or exact,
but now this list is not used except to force the delta to be standard.

The following words may be used:

   pracist
   præcist
   circa


The following words may be used to specify a business delta:

   arbejdsdag
   arbejdsdage


=item B<Numbers>

Numbers may be spelled out in a variety of ways.  The following sets correspond
to the numbers from 1 to 53:

   1.
   forste
   første
   en

   2.
   anden
   to

   3.
   tredie
   tre

   4.
   fjerde
   fire

   5.
   femte
   fem

   6.
   sjette
   seks

   7.
   syvende
   syv

   8.
   ottende
   otte

   9.
   niende
   ni

   10.
   tiende
   ti


   11.
   elfte
   elleve

   12.
   tolvte
   tolv

   13.
   trettende
   tretten

   14.
   fjortende
   fjorten

   15.
   femtende
   femten

   16.
   sekstende
   seksten

   17.
   syttende
   sytten

   18.
   attende
   atten

   19.
   nittende
   nitten

   20.
   tyvende
   tyve


   21.
   enogtyvende
   enogtyve

   22.
   toogtyvende
   toogtyve

   23.
   treogtyvende
   treogtyve

   24.
   fireogtyvende
   fireogtyve

   25.
   femogtyvende
   femogtyve

   26.
   seksogtyvende
   seksogtyve

   27.
   syvogtyvende
   syvogtyve

   28.
   otteogtyvende
   otteogtyve

   29.
   niogtyvende
   niogtyve

   30.
   tredivte
   tredive


   31.
   enogtredivte
   enogtredive

   32.
   toogtredivte
   toogtredive

   33.
   treogtredivte
   treogtredive

   34.
   fireogtredivte
   fireogtredive

   35.
   femogtredivte
   femogtredive

   36.
   seksogtredivte
   seksogtredive

   37.
   syvogtredivte
   syvogtredive

   38.
   otteogtredivte
   otteogtredive

   39.
   niogtredivte
   niogtredive

   40.
   fyrretyvende
   fyrre


   41.
   enogtyvende
   enogtyve

   42.
   toogtyvende
   toogtyve

   43.
   treogtyvende
   treogtyve

   44.
   fireogtyvende
   fireogtyve

   45.
   femogtyvende
   femogtyve

   46.
   seksogtyvende
   seksogtyve

   47.
   syvogtyvende
   syvogtyve

   48.
   otteogtyvende
   otteogtyve

   49.
   niogtyvende
   niogtyve

   50.
   halvtredsindstyvende
   halvtreds


   51.
   enogindstyvende
   enogindstyve

   52.
   toogindstyvende
   toogindstyve

   53.
   treogindstyvende
   treogindstyve


=item B<Ignored words>

In writing out dates in common forms, there are a number of words
that are typically not important.

There is frequently a word that appears in a phrase to designate
that a time is going to be specified next.  In English, you would
use the word AT in the example:

   December 3 at 12:00

The following words may be used:

   klokken
   kl
   kl.


Another word is used to designate one member of a set.  In English,
you would use the words IN or OF:

   1st day OF December
   1st day IN December

The following words may be used:

   om


Another word is use to specify that something is on a certain date.  In
English, you would use ON:

   ON July 5th

The following words may be used:

   pa
   på


=item B<Words that set the date, time, or both>

There are some words that can be used to specify a date, a
time, or both relative to now.

Words that set the date are similar to the English words 'yesterday'
or 'tomorrow'.  These are specified as a delta which is added to the
current time to get a date.  The time is NOT set however, so the delta
is only partially used (it should only include year, month, week, and
day fields).

The following words may be used:

   idag                 0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   igar                 -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   igår                 -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   imorgen              +0:0:0:1:0:0:0


Words that set only the time of day are similar to the English words
'noon' or 'midnight'.

The following words may be used:

   midnat               00:00:00
   midt pa dagen        12:00:00
   midt på dagen        12:00:00


Words that set the entire time and date (relative to the current
time and date) are also available.

In English, the word 'now' is one of these.

The following words may be used:

   nu                   0:0:0:0:0:0:0


=item B<Hour/Minute/Second separators>

When specifying the time of day, the most common separator is a colon (:)
which can be used for both separators.

Some languages use different pairs.  For example, French allows you to
specify the time as 13h30:20, so it would use the following pairs:

   : :
   h :

The first column is the hour-minute separator and the second column is
the minute-second separator.  Both are perl regular expressions.  When
creating a new translation, be aware that regular expressions with utf-8
characters may be tricky.  For example, don't include the expression '[x]'
where 'x' is a utf-8 character.

A pair of colons is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
additional pairs, they are listed here:

   \.  :


=item B<Fractional second separator>

When specifying fractional seconds, the most common way is to use a
decimal point (.).  Some languages may specify a different separator
that might be used.  If this is done, it is a regular expression.

The decimal point is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
another separator, it is listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=back

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None known.

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the L<Date::Manip::Problems> documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Date::Manip>       - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
