# Copyright (c) 2012-2017 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

########################################################################
########################################################################

=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Lang::finnish - Finnish language support.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This module contains a list of words and expressions supporting
the language. It is not intended to be used directly (other
Date::Manip modules will load it as needed).

=head1 LANGUAGE EXPRESSIONS

The following is a list of all language words and expressions used
to write times and/or dates.

All strings are case insensitive.

=over 4

=item B<Month names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the month, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following month names may be used:

   tammikuu
   tammikuun
   tammikuuta

   helmikuu
   helmikuun
   helmikuuta

   maaliskuu
   maaliskuun
   maaliskuuta

   huhtikuu
   huhtikuun
   huhtikuuta

   toukokuu
   toukokuun
   toukokuuta

   kesäkuu
   kesakuu
   kesakuun
   kesakuuta

   heinäkuu
   heinakuu
   heinakuun
   heinakuuta

   elokuu
   elokuun
   elokuuta

   syyskuu
   syyskuun
   syyskuuta

   lokakuu
   lokakuun
   lokakuuta

   marraskuu
   marraskuun
   marraskuuta

   joulukuu
   joulukuun
   joulukuuta


The following abbreviations may be used:

   tammi

   helmi

   maalis

   huhti

   touko

   kesa
   kesä

   heina
   heinä

   elo

   syys

   loka

   marras

   joulu


=item B<Day names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the day, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following day names may be used:

   maanantai
   maanantaina

   tiistai
   tiistaina

   keskiviikko
   keskiviikkona

   torstai
   torstaina

   perjantai
   perjantaina

   lauantai
   lauantaina

   sunnuntai
   sunnuntaina


The following abbreviations may be used:

   ma

   ti

   ke

   to

   pe

   la

   su


The following short (1-2 characters) abbreviations may be used:

   ma

   ti

   ke

   to

   pe

   la

   su


=item B<Delta field names>

These are the names (and abbreviations) for the fields in a delta.  There are
7 fields: years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds.

The names and abbreviations for these fields are:

   vuotta
   vuosi
   v

   kuukautta
   kuukausi
   kk

   viikkoa
   vk
   viikko

   paivaa
   päivää
   päivä
   paiva
   pv

   tuntia
   h
   tunti

   minuuttia
   minuutti
   min

   sekuntia
   s
   sekunti


=item B<Morning/afternoon times>

This is a list of expressions use to designate morning or afternoon time
when a time is entered as a 12-hour time rather than a 24-hour time.
For example, in English, the time "17:00" could be specified as "5:00 PM".

Morning and afternoon time may be designated by the following sets of
words:

   AM
   A.M.
   aamulla
   aamupäivällä
   aamupaivalla

   PM
   P.M.
   illalla
   iltapäivällä
   iltapaivalla


=item B<Each or every>

There are a list of words that specify every occurrence of something.  These
are used in the following phrases:

   EACH Monday
   EVERY Monday
   EVERY month

The following words may be used:

   joka
   jokainen


=item B<Next/Previous/Last occurrence>

There are a list of words that may be used to specify the next,
previous, or last occurrence of something.  These words could be used
in the following phrases:

   NEXT week

   LAST Tuesday
   PREVIOUS Tuesday

   LAST day of the month

The following words may be used:

Next occurrence:

   ensi


Previous occurrence:

   viime


Last occurrence:

   viimeinen


=item B<Delta words for going forward/backward in time>

When parsing deltas, there are words that may be used to specify
the the delta will refer to a time in the future or to a time in
the past (relative to some date).  In English, for example, you
might say:

   IN 5 days
   5 days AGO

The following words may be used to specify deltas that refer to
dates in the past or future respectively:

   sitten

   ssa
   myöhemmin
   myohemmin


=item B<Business mode>

This contains two lists of words which can be used to specify a standard
(i.e. non-business) delta or a business delta.

Previously, it was used to tell whether the delta was approximate or exact,
but now this list is not used except to force the delta to be standard.

The following words may be used:

   täsmälleen
   tasmalleen
   tasan
   noin
   suunnilleen
   osapuilleen


The following words may be used to specify a business delta:

   arkipaiva
   arkipäivä


=item B<Numbers>

Numbers may be spelled out in a variety of ways.  The following sets correspond
to the numbers from 1 to 53:

   1.
   ensimmäinen
   ensimmainen
   yksi

   2.
   toinen
   kaksi

   3.
   kolmas
   kolme

   4.
   neljäs
   neljas
   neljä
   nelja

   5.
   viides
   viisi

   6.
   kuudes
   kuusi

   7.
   seitsemäs
   seitsemas
   seitsemän
   seitseman

   8.
   kahdeksas
   kahdeksan

   9.
   yhdeksäs
   yhdeksas
   yhdeksän
   yhdeksan

   10.
   kymmenes
   kymmenen


   11.
   yksitoista
   yhdestoista

   12.
   kaksitoista
   kahdestoista

   13.
   kolmetoista
   kolmastoista

   14.
   neljätoista
   neljatoista
   neljästoista
   neljastoista

   15.
   viisitoista
   viidestoista

   16.
   kuusitoista
   kuudestoista

   17.
   seitsemäntoista
   seitsemantoista
   seitsemästoista
   seitsemastoista

   18.
   kahdeksantoista
   kahdeksastoista

   19.
   yhdeksäntoista
   yhdeksantoista
   yhdeksästoista
   yhdeksastoista

   20.
   kahdeskymmenes
   kaksikymmentä
   kaksikymmenta


   21.
   kahdeskymmenesensimmäinen
   kahdeskymmenesensimmainen
   kaksikymmentäyksi
   kaksikymmentayksi

   22.
   kahdeskymmenestoinen
   kaksikymmentäkaksi
   kaksikymmentakaksi

   23.
   kahdeskymmeneskolmas
   kaksikymmentäkolme
   kaksikymmentakolme

   24.
   kahdeskymmenesneljäs
   kahdeskymmenesneljas
   kaksikymmentäneljä
   kaksikymmentanelja

   25.
   kahdeskymmenesviides
   kaksikymmentäviisi
   kaksikymmentaviisi

   26.
   kahdeskymmeneskuudes
   kaksikymmentäkuusi
   kaksikymmentakuusi

   27.
   kahdeskymmenesseitsemäs
   kahdeskymmenesseitsemas
   kaksikymmentäseitsemän
   kaksikymmentaseitseman

   28.
   kahdeskymmeneskahdeksas
   kaksikymmentäkahdeksan
   kaksikymmentakahdeksan

   29.
   kahdeskymmenesyhdeksäs
   kahdeskymmenesyhdeksas
   kaksikymmentäyhdeksän
   kaksikymmentayhdeksan

   30.
   kolmaskymmene
   kolmekymmentä
   kolmekymmenta


   31.
   kolmaskymmenesensimmäinen
   kolmaskymmenesensimmainen
   kolmekymmentäyksi
   kolmekymmentayksi

   32.
   kolmaskymmenestoinen
   kolmekymmentäkaksi
   kolmekymmentakaksi

   33.
   kolmaskymmeneskolmas
   kolmekymmentäkolme
   kolmekymmentakolme

   34.
   kolmaskymmenesneljäs
   kolmaskymmenesneljas
   kolmekymmentäneljä
   kolmekymmentanelja

   35.
   kolmaskymmenesviides
   kolmekymmentäviisi
   kolmekymmentaviisi

   36.
   kolmaskymmeneskuudes
   kolmekymmentäkuusi
   kolmekymmentakuusi

   37.
   kolmaskymmenesseitsemäs
   kolmaskymmenesseitsemas
   kolmekymmentäseitsemän
   kolmekymmentaseitseman

   38.
   kolmaskymmeneskahdeksas
   kolmekymmentäkahdeksan
   kolmekymmentakahdeksan

   39.
   kolmaskymmenesyhdeksäs
   kolmaskymmenesyhdeksas
   kolmekymmentäyhdeksän
   kolmekymmentayhdeksan

   40.
   neljäskymmenes
   neljaskymmenes
   neljäkymmentä
   neljakymmenta


   41.
   neljäskymmenesensimmäinen
   neljaskymmenesensimmainen
   neljäkymmentäyksi
   neljakymmentayksi

   42.
   neljäskymmenestoinen
   neljaskymmenestoinen
   neljäkymmentäkaksi
   neljakymmentakaksi

   43.
   neljäskymmeneskolmas
   neljaskymmeneskolmas
   neljäkymmentäkolme
   neljakymmentakolme

   44.
   neljäskymmenesneljäs
   neljaskymmenesneljas
   neljäkymmentäneljä
   neljakymmentänelja

   45.
   neljäskymmenesviides
   neljaskymmenesviides
   neljäkymmentäviisi
   neljakymmentaviisi

   46.
   neljäskymmeneskuudes
   neljaskymmeneskuudes
   neljäkymmentäkuusi
   neljakymmentakuusi

   47.
   neljäskymmenesseitsemäs
   neljaskymmenesseitsemas
   neljäkymmentäseitsemän
   neljakymmentaseitseman

   48.
   neljäskymmeneskahdeksas
   neljaskymmeneskahdeksas
   neljäkymmentäkahdeksan
   neljakymmentakahdeksan

   49.
   neljäskymmenesyhdeksäs
   neljaskymmenesyhdeksas
   neljäkymmentäyhdeksän
   neljakymmentayhdeksan

   50.
   viideskymmenes
   viisikymmentä
   viisikymmenta


   51.
   viideskymmenesensimmäinen
   viideskymmenesensimmainen
   viisikymmentäyksi
   viisikymmentayksi

   52.
   viideskymmenestoinen
   viisikymmentäkaksi
   viisikymmentakaksi

   53.
   viideskymmeneskolmas
   viisikymmentäkolme
   viisikymmentakolme


=item B<Ignored words>

In writing out dates in common forms, there are a number of words
that are typically not important.

There is frequently a word that appears in a phrase to designate
that a time is going to be specified next.  In English, you would
use the word AT in the example:

   December 3 at 12:00

The following words may be used:

   kello


Another word is used to designate one member of a set.  In English,
you would use the words IN or OF:

   1st day OF December
   1st day IN December

The following words may be used:

   Not defined in this language


Another word is use to specify that something is on a certain date.  In
English, you would use ON:

   ON July 5th

The following words may be used:

   Not defined in this language


=item B<Words that set the date, time, or both>

There are some words that can be used to specify a date, a
time, or both relative to now.

Words that set the date are similar to the English words 'yesterday'
or 'tomorrow'.  These are specified as a delta which is added to the
current time to get a date.  The time is NOT set however, so the delta
is only partially used (it should only include year, month, week, and
day fields).

The following words may be used:

   huomenna             +0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   tanaan               0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   toissapaivana        -0:0:0:2:0:0:0
   toissapäivänä        -0:0:0:2:0:0:0
   tänään               0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   yesterdayeilen       -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   ylihuomenna          +0:0:0:2:0:0:0


Words that set only the time of day are similar to the English words
'noon' or 'midnight'.

The following words may be used:

   keskipaiva           12:00:00
   keskipaivalla        12:00:00
   keskipäivä           12:00:00
   keskipäivällä        12:00:00
   keskiyo              00:00:00
   keskiyolla           00:00:00
   keskiyö              00:00:00
   keskiyöllä           00:00:00


Words that set the entire time and date (relative to the current
time and date) are also available.

In English, the word 'now' is one of these.

The following words may be used:

   nyt                  0:0:0:0:0:0:0


=item B<Hour/Minute/Second separators>

When specifying the time of day, the most common separator is a colon (:)
which can be used for both separators.

Some languages use different pairs.  For example, French allows you to
specify the time as 13h30:20, so it would use the following pairs:

   : :
   h :

The first column is the hour-minute separator and the second column is
the minute-second separator.  Both are perl regular expressions.  When
creating a new translation, be aware that regular expressions with utf-8
characters may be tricky.  For example, don't include the expression '[x]'
where 'x' is a utf-8 character.

A pair of colons is ALWAY allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
additional pairs, they are listed here:

   \.  \.


=item B<Fractional second separator>

When specifying fractional seconds, the most common way is to use a
decimal point (.).  Some languages may specify a different separator
that might be used.  If this is done, it is a regular expression.

The decimal point is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
another separator, it is listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=back

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None known.

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the L<Date::Manip::Problems> documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Date::Manip>       - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
