# Copyright (c) 1996-2021 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

########################################################################
########################################################################

=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Lang::french - French language support.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This module contains a list of words and expressions supporting
the language. It is not intended to be used directly (other
Date::Manip modules will load it as needed).

=head1 LANGUAGE EXPRESSIONS

The following is a list of all language words and expressions used
to write times and/or dates.

All strings are case insensitive.

=over 4

=item B<Month names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the month, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following month names may be used:

   janvier

   février
   fevrier

   mars

   avril

   mai

   juin

   juillet

   août
   aout

   septembre

   octobre

   novembre

   décembre
   decembre


The following abbreviations may be used:

   jan
   jan.

   fév
   fev
   fev.
   fév.

   mar
   mar.

   avr
   avr.

   mai
   mai.

   juin
   juin.

   juil
   juil.

   août
   aout
   aout.
   août.

   sept
   sept.

   oct
   oct.

   nov
   nov.

   déc
   dec
   dec.
   déc.


=item B<Day names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the day, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following day names may be used:

   lundi

   mardi

   mercredi

   jeudi

   vendredi

   samedi

   dimanche


The following abbreviations may be used:

   lun
   lun.

   mar
   mar.

   mer
   mer.

   jeu
   jeu.

   ven
   ven.

   sam
   sam.

   dim
   dim.


The following short (1-2 characters) abbreviations may be used:

   l

   ma

   me

   j

   v

   s

   d


=item B<Delta field names>

These are the names (and abbreviations) for the fields in a delta.  There are
7 fields: years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds.

The names and abbreviations for these fields are:

   annees
   années
   an
   annee
   ans
   année

   mois
   m

   semaine
   semaines
   sem

   jours
   j
   jour
   journee
   journée

   heures
   h
   heure

   minutes
   mn
   min
   minute

   secondes
   s
   sec
   seconde


=item B<Morning/afternoon times>

This is a list of expressions use to designate morning or afternoon time
when a time is entered as a 12-hour time rather than a 24-hour time.
For example, in English, the time "17:00" could be specified as "5:00 PM".

Morning and afternoon time may be designated by the following sets of
words:

   du matin

   du soir


=item B<Each or every>

There are a list of words that specify every occurrence of something.  These
are used in the following phrases:

   EACH Monday
   EVERY Monday
   EVERY month

The following words may be used:

   chaque
   tous les
   toutes les


=item B<Next/Previous/Last occurrence>

There are a list of words that may be used to specify the next,
previous, or last occurrence of something.  These words could be used
in the following phrases:

   NEXT week

   LAST Tuesday
   PREVIOUS Tuesday

   LAST day of the month

The following words may be used:

Next occurrence:

   suivant
   suivante
   prochain
   prochaine


Previous occurrence:

   precedent
   précédent
   precedente
   précédente
   derniere
   dernière


Last occurrence:

   dernier


=item B<Delta words for going forward/backward in time>

When parsing deltas, there are words that may be used to specify
the the delta will refer to a time in the future or to a time in
the past (relative to some date).  In English, for example, you
might say:

   IN 5 days
   5 days AGO

The following words may be used to specify deltas that refer to
dates in the past or future respectively:

   il y a
   auparavant
   dans le passé
   plus tot
   plus tôt

   en
   plus tard
   dans l'avenir
   a venir
   à venir
   dans


=item B<Business mode>

This contains two lists of words which can be used to specify a standard
(i.e. non-business) delta or a business delta.

Previously, it was used to tell whether the delta was approximate or exact,
but now this list is not used except to force the delta to be standard.

The following words may be used:

   exactement
   approximativement
   environ


The following words may be used to specify a business delta:

   professionel
   ouvrable
   ouvrables


=item B<Numbers>

Numbers may be spelled out in a variety of ways.  The following sets correspond
to the numbers from 1 to 53:

   1er
   1re
   premier
   un

   2e
   deux
   deuxieme
   deuxième

   3e
   trois
   troisieme
   troisième

   4e
   quatre
   quatrieme
   quatrième

   5e
   cinq
   cinquieme
   cinquième

   6e
   six
   sixieme
   sixième

   7e
   sept
   septieme
   septième

   8e
   huit
   huitieme
   huitième

   9e
   neuf
   neuvieme
   neuvième

   10e
   dix
   dixieme
   dixième


   11e
   onze
   onzieme
   onzième

   12e
   douze
   douzieme
   douzième

   13e
   treize
   treizieme
   treizième

   14e
   quatorze
   quatorzieme
   quatorzième

   15e
   quinze
   quinzieme
   quinzième

   16e
   seize
   seizieme
   seizième

   17e
   dix-sept
   dix-septieme
   dix-septième

   18e
   dix-huit
   dix-huitieme
   dix-huitième

   19e
   dix-neuf
   dix-neuvieme
   dix-neuvième

   20e
   vingt
   vingtieme
   vingtième


   21e
   vingt et un
   vingt et unieme
   vingt et unième

   22e
   vingt-deux
   vingt-deuxieme
   vingt-deuxième

   23e
   vingt-trois
   vingt-troisieme
   vingt-troisième

   24e
   vingt-quatre
   vingt-quatrieme
   vingt-quatrième

   25e
   vingt-cinq
   vingt-cinquieme
   vingt-cinquième

   26e
   vingt-six
   vingt-sixieme
   vingt-sixième

   27e
   vingt-sept
   vingt-septieme
   vingt-septième

   28e
   vingt-huit
   vingt-huitieme
   vingt-huitième

   29e
   vingt-neuf
   vingt-neuvieme
   vingt-neuvième

   30e
   trente
   trentieme
   trentième


   31e
   trente et un
   trente et unieme
   trente et unième

   32e
   trente-deux
   trente-deuxieme
   trente-deuxième

   33e
   trente-trois
   trente-troisieme
   trente-troisième

   34e
   trente-quatre
   trente-quatrieme
   trente-quatrième

   35e
   trente-cinq
   trente-cinquieme
   trente-cinquième

   36e
   trente-six
   trente-sixieme
   trente-sixième

   37e
   trente-sept
   trente-septieme
   trente-septième

   38e
   trente-huit
   trente-huitieme
   trente-huitième

   39e
   trente-neuf
   trente-neuvieme
   trente-neuvième

   40e
   quarante
   quarantieme
   quarantième


   41e
   quarante et un
   quarante et unieme
   quarante et unième

   42e
   quarante-deux
   quarante-deuxieme
   quarante-deuxième

   43e
   quarante-trois
   quarante-troisieme
   quarante-troisième

   44e
   quarante-quatre
   quarante-quatrieme
   quarante-quatrième

   45e
   quarante-cinq
   quarante-cinquieme
   quarante-cinquième

   46e
   quarante-six
   quarante-sixieme
   quarante-sixième

   47e
   quarante-sept
   quarante-septieme
   quarante-septième

   48e
   quarante-huit
   quarante-huitieme
   quarante-huitième

   49e
   quarante-neuf
   quarante-neuvieme
   quarante-neuvième

   50e
   cinquante
   cinquantieme
   cinquantième


   51e
   cinquante et un
   cinquante et unieme
   cinquante et unième

   52e
   cinquante-deux
   cinquante-deuxieme
   cinquante-deuxième

   53e
   cinquante-trois
   cinquante-troisieme
   cinquante-troisième


=item B<Ignored words>

In writing out dates in common forms, there are a number of words
that are typically not important.

There is frequently a word that appears in a phrase to designate
that a time is going to be specified next.  In English, you would
use the word AT in the example:

   December 3 at 12:00

The following words may be used:

   a
   à


Another word is used to designate one member of a set.  In English,
you would use the words IN or OF:

   1st day OF December
   1st day IN December

The following words may be used:

   de
   en
   du


Another word is use to specify that something is on a certain date.  In
English, you would use ON:

   ON July 5th

The following words may be used:

   sur


=item B<Words that set the date, time, or both>

There are some words that can be used to specify a date, a
time, or both relative to now.

Words that set the date are similar to the English words 'yesterday'
or 'tomorrow'.  These are specified as a delta which is added to the
current time to get a date.  The time is NOT set however, so the delta
is only partially used (it should only include year, month, week, and
day fields).

The following words may be used:

   aujourd'hui          0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   aujourd’hui          0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   demain               +0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   hier                 -0:0:0:1:0:0:0


Words that set only the time of day are similar to the English words
'noon' or 'midnight'.

The following words may be used:

   midi                 12:00:00
   minuit               00:00:00


Words that set the entire time and date (relative to the current
time and date) are also available.

In English, the word 'now' is one of these.

The following words may be used:

   maintenant           0:0:0:0:0:0:0


=item B<Hour/Minute/Second separators>

When specifying the time of day, the most common separator is a colon (:)
which can be used for both separators.

Some languages use different pairs.  For example, French allows you to
specify the time as 13h30:20, so it would use the following pairs:

   : :
   h :

The first column is the hour-minute separator and the second column is
the minute-second separator.  Both are perl regular expressions.  When
creating a new translation, be aware that regular expressions with utf-8
characters may be tricky.  For example, don't include the expression '[x]'
where 'x' is a utf-8 character.

A pair of colons is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
additional pairs, they are listed here:

   h  :


=item B<Fractional second separator>

When specifying fractional seconds, the most common way is to use a
decimal point (.).  Some languages may specify a different separator
that might be used.  If this is done, it is a regular expression.

The decimal point is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
another separator, it is listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=back

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None known.

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the L<Date::Manip::Problems> documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Date::Manip>       - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
