# Copyright (c) 1999-2021 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

########################################################################
########################################################################

=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Lang::italian - Italian language support.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This module contains a list of words and expressions supporting
the language. It is not intended to be used directly (other
Date::Manip modules will load it as needed).

=head1 LANGUAGE EXPRESSIONS

The following is a list of all language words and expressions used
to write times and/or dates.

All strings are case insensitive.

=over 4

=item B<Month names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the month, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following month names may be used:

   Gennaio

   Febbraio

   Marzo

   Aprile

   Maggio

   Giugno

   Luglio

   Agosto

   Settembre

   Ottobre

   Novembre

   Dicembre


The following abbreviations may be used:

   Gen

   Feb

   Mar

   Apr

   Mag

   Giu

   Lug

   Ago

   Set

   Ott

   Nov

   Dic


=item B<Day names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the day, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following day names may be used:

   Lunedì
   Lunedi

   Martedì
   Martedi

   Mercoledì
   Mercoledi

   Giovedì
   Giovedi

   Venerdì
   Venerdi

   Sabato

   Domenica


The following abbreviations may be used:

   Lun

   Mar

   Mer

   Gio

   Ven

   Sab

   Dom


The following short (1-2 characters) abbreviations may be used:

   L

   Ma

   Me

   G

   V

   S

   D


=item B<Delta field names>

These are the names (and abbreviations) for the fields in a delta.  There are
7 fields: years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds.

The names and abbreviations for these fields are:

   anni
   anno
   a

   mesi
   mese
   mes
   m

   settimane
   settimana
   sett

   giorni
   giorno
   g

   ore
   ora
   h

   minuti
   minuto
   min

   secondi
   s
   secondo
   sec


=item B<Morning/afternoon times>

This is a list of expressions use to designate morning or afternoon time
when a time is entered as a 12-hour time rather than a 24-hour time.
For example, in English, the time "17:00" could be specified as "5:00 PM".

Morning and afternoon time may be designated by the following sets of
words:

   AM
   m.

   PM
   p.


=item B<Each or every>

There are a list of words that specify every occurrence of something.  These
are used in the following phrases:

   EACH Monday
   EVERY Monday
   EVERY month

The following words may be used:

   ogni


=item B<Next/Previous/Last occurrence>

There are a list of words that may be used to specify the next,
previous, or last occurrence of something.  These words could be used
in the following phrases:

   NEXT week

   LAST Tuesday
   PREVIOUS Tuesday

   LAST day of the month

The following words may be used:

Next occurrence:

   prossimo
   prossima


Previous occurrence:

   scorso
   scorsa


Last occurrence:

   ultimo
   ultima


=item B<Delta words for going forward/backward in time>

When parsing deltas, there are words that may be used to specify
the the delta will refer to a time in the future or to a time in
the past (relative to some date).  In English, for example, you
might say:

   IN 5 days
   5 days AGO

The following words may be used to specify deltas that refer to
dates in the past or future respectively:

   fa

   fra
   dopo


=item B<Business mode>

This contains two lists of words which can be used to specify a standard
(i.e. non-business) delta or a business delta.

Previously, it was used to tell whether the delta was approximate or exact,
but now this list is not used except to force the delta to be standard.

The following words may be used:

   esattamente
   circa


The following words may be used to specify a business delta:

   lavorativi
   lavorativo


=item B<Numbers>

Numbers may be spelled out in a variety of ways.  The following sets correspond
to the numbers from 1 to 53:

   1o
   1a
   uno
   una
   primo
   prima

   2o
   2a
   due
   secondo
   seconda

   3o
   3a
   tre
   terzo
   terza

   4o
   4a
   quattro
   quarto
   quarta

   5o
   5a
   cinque
   quinto
   quinta

   6o
   6a
   sei
   sesto
   sesta

   7o
   7a
   sette
   settimo
   settima

   8o
   8a
   otto
   ottavo
   ottava

   9o
   9a
   nove
   nono
   nona

   10o
   10a
   dieci
   decimo
   decima


   11o
   11a
   undici
   undicesimo
   undicesima

   12o
   12a
   dodici
   dodicesimo
   dodicesima

   13o
   13a
   tredici
   tredicesimo
   tredicesima

   14o
   14a
   quattordici
   quattordicesimo
   quattordicesima

   15o
   15a
   quindici
   quindicesimo
   quindicesima

   16o
   16a
   sedici
   sedicesimo
   sedicesima

   17o
   17a
   diciassette
   diciassettesimo
   diciassettesima

   18o
   18a
   diciotto
   diciottesimo
   diciottesima

   19o
   19a
   diciannove
   diciannovesimo
   diciannovesima

   20o
   20a
   venti
   ventesimo
   ventesima


   21o
   21a
   ventuno
   ventunesimo
   ventunesima

   22o
   22a
   ventidue
   ventiduesimo
   ventiduesima

   23o
   23a
   ventitré
   ventitre
   ventitreesimo
   ventitreesima

   24o
   24a
   ventiquattro
   ventiquattresimo
   ventiquattresima

   25o
   25a
   venticinque
   venticinquesimo
   venticinquesima

   26o
   26a
   ventisei
   ventiseiesimo
   ventiseiesima

   27o
   27a
   ventisette
   ventisettesimo
   ventisettesima

   28o
   28a
   ventotto
   ventottesimo
   ventottesima

   29o
   29a
   ventinove
   ventinovesimo
   ventinovesima

   30o
   30a
   trenta
   trentesimo
   trentesima


   31o
   31a
   trentuno
   trentunesimo
   trentunesima

   32o
   32a
   trentadue
   trentaduesimo
   trentaduesima

   33o
   33a
   trentatré
   trentatre
   trentatreesimo
   trentatreesima

   34o
   34a
   trentaquattro
   trentiquattresimo
   trentaquattresima

   35o
   35a
   trentacinque
   trentacinquesimo
   trentacinquesima

   36o
   36a
   trentasei
   trentaseiesimo
   trentaseiesima

   37o
   37a
   trentasette
   trentasettesimo
   trentasettesima

   38o
   38a
   trentotto
   trentottesimo
   trentottesima

   39o
   39a
   trentanove
   trentanovesimo
   trentanovesima

   40o
   40a
   quaranta
   quarantesimo
   quarantesima


   41o
   41a
   quarantuno
   quarantunesimo
   quarantunesima

   42o
   42a
   quarantadue
   quarantaduesimo
   quarantaduesima

   43o
   43a
   quarantatré
   quarantatre
   quarantatreesimo
   quarantatreesima

   44o
   44a
   quarantaquattro
   quarantaquattresimo
   quarantaquattresima

   45o
   45a
   quarantacinque
   quarantacinquesimo
   quarantacinquesima

   46o
   46a
   quarantasei
   quarantaseiesimo
   quarantaseiesima

   47o
   47a
   quarantasette
   quarantasettesimo
   quarantasettesima

   48o
   48a
   quarantotto
   quarantottesimo
   quarantottesima

   49o
   49a
   quarantanove
   quarantanovesimo
   quarantanovesima

   50o
   50a
   cinquanta
   cinquantesimo
   cinquantesima


   51o
   51a
   cinquantuno
   cinquantunesimo
   cinquantunesima

   52o
   52a
   cinquantadue
   cinquantaduesimo
   cinquantaduesima

   53o
   53a
   cinquantatré
   cinquantatre
   cinquantatreesimo
   cinquantatreesima


=item B<Ignored words>

In writing out dates in common forms, there are a number of words
that are typically not important.

There is frequently a word that appears in a phrase to designate
that a time is going to be specified next.  In English, you would
use the word AT in the example:

   December 3 at 12:00

The following words may be used:

   alle


Another word is used to designate one member of a set.  In English,
you would use the words IN or OF:

   1st day OF December
   1st day IN December

The following words may be used:

   della
   del
   di


Another word is use to specify that something is on a certain date.  In
English, you would use ON:

   ON July 5th

The following words may be used:

   di


=item B<Words that set the date, time, or both>

There are some words that can be used to specify a date, a
time, or both relative to now.

Words that set the date are similar to the English words 'yesterday'
or 'tomorrow'.  These are specified as a delta which is added to the
current time to get a date.  The time is NOT set however, so the delta
is only partially used (it should only include year, month, week, and
day fields).

The following words may be used:

   domani               +0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   dopodomani           +0:0:0:2:0:0:0
   ieri                 -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   l'altroieri          -0:0:0:2:0:0:0
   oggi                 0:0:0:0:0:0:0


Words that set only the time of day are similar to the English words
'noon' or 'midnight'.

The following words may be used:

   mezzanotte           00:00:00
   mezzogiorno          12:00:00


Words that set the entire time and date (relative to the current
time and date) are also available.

In English, the word 'now' is one of these.

The following words may be used:

   adesso               0:0:0:0:0:0:0


=item B<Hour/Minute/Second separators>

When specifying the time of day, the most common separator is a colon (:)
which can be used for both separators.

Some languages use different pairs.  For example, French allows you to
specify the time as 13h30:20, so it would use the following pairs:

   : :
   h :

The first column is the hour-minute separator and the second column is
the minute-second separator.  Both are perl regular expressions.  When
creating a new translation, be aware that regular expressions with utf-8
characters may be tricky.  For example, don't include the expression '[x]'
where 'x' is a utf-8 character.

A pair of colons is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
additional pairs, they are listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=item B<Fractional second separator>

When specifying fractional seconds, the most common way is to use a
decimal point (.).  Some languages may specify a different separator
that might be used.  If this is done, it is a regular expression.

The decimal point is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
another separator, it is listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=back

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None known.

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the L<Date::Manip::Problems> documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Date::Manip>       - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
