# Copyright (c) 1998-2021 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

########################################################################
########################################################################

=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Lang::norwegian - Norwegian language support.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This module contains a list of words and expressions supporting
the language. It is not intended to be used directly (other
Date::Manip modules will load it as needed).

=head1 LANGUAGE EXPRESSIONS

The following is a list of all language words and expressions used
to write times and/or dates.

All strings are case insensitive.

=over 4

=item B<Month names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the month, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following month names may be used:

   januar

   februar

   mars

   april

   mai

   juni

   juli

   august

   september

   oktober

   november

   desember


The following abbreviations may be used:

   jan

   feb

   mar

   apr

   mai

   jun

   jul

   aug

   sep

   okt

   nov

   des


=item B<Day names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the day, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following day names may be used:

   mandag

   tirsdag

   onsdag

   torsdag

   fredag

   lørdag
   loerdag

   søndag
   soendag


The following abbreviations may be used:

   man

   tir

   ons

   tor

   fre

   lør
   loer

   søn
   soen


The following short (1-2 characters) abbreviations may be used:

   m

   ti

   o

   to

   f

   l

   s


=item B<Delta field names>

These are the names (and abbreviations) for the fields in a delta.  There are
7 fields: years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds.

The names and abbreviations for these fields are:

   aar
   år
   å
   aa

   maaneder
   måneder
   måned
   mnd
   maaned
   mnd

   uker
   uke
   uk
   ukr
   u

   dager
   dag
   d

   timer
   time
   t

   minutter
   minutt
   min
   m

   sekunder
   sekund
   sek
   s


=item B<Morning/afternoon times>

This is a list of expressions use to designate morning or afternoon time
when a time is entered as a 12-hour time rather than a 24-hour time.
For example, in English, the time "17:00" could be specified as "5:00 PM".

Morning and afternoon time may be designated by the following sets of
words:

   FM

   EM


=item B<Each or every>

There are a list of words that specify every occurrence of something.  These
are used in the following phrases:

   EACH Monday
   EVERY Monday
   EVERY month

The following words may be used:

   hver


=item B<Next/Previous/Last occurrence>

There are a list of words that may be used to specify the next,
previous, or last occurrence of something.  These words could be used
in the following phrases:

   NEXT week

   LAST Tuesday
   PREVIOUS Tuesday

   LAST day of the month

The following words may be used:

Next occurrence:

   neste


Previous occurrence:

   forrige


Last occurrence:

   siste


=item B<Delta words for going forward/backward in time>

When parsing deltas, there are words that may be used to specify
the the delta will refer to a time in the future or to a time in
the past (relative to some date).  In English, for example, you
might say:

   IN 5 days
   5 days AGO

The following words may be used to specify deltas that refer to
dates in the past or future respectively:

   siden

   om
   senere


=item B<Business mode>

This contains two lists of words which can be used to specify a standard
(i.e. non-business) delta or a business delta.

Previously, it was used to tell whether the delta was approximate or exact,
but now this list is not used except to force the delta to be standard.

The following words may be used:

   eksakt
   cirka
   omtrent


The following words may be used to specify a business delta:

   arbeidsdag
   arbeidsdager


=item B<Numbers>

Numbers may be spelled out in a variety of ways.  The following sets correspond
to the numbers from 1 to 53:

   1.
   første
   foerste
   en

   2.
   andre
   to

   3.
   tredje
   tre

   4.
   fjerde
   fire

   5.
   femte
   fem

   6.
   sjette
   seks

   7.
   syvende
   syv

   8.
   åttende
   aattende
   åtte
   aatte

   9.
   niende
   ni

   10.
   tiende
   ti


   11.
   ellevte
   elleve

   12.
   tolvte
   tolv

   13.
   trettende
   tretten

   14.
   fjortende
   fjorten

   15.
   femtende
   femten

   16.
   sekstende
   seksten

   17.
   syttende
   sytten

   18.
   attende
   atten

   19.
   nittende
   nitten

   20.
   tjuende
   tjue


   21.
   tjueførste
   tjuefoerste
   tjueen

   22.
   tjueandre
   tjueto

   23.
   tjuetredje
   tjuetre

   24.
   tjuefjerde
   tjuefire

   25.
   tjuefemte
   tjuefem

   26.
   tjuesjette
   tjueseks

   27.
   tjuesyvende
   tjuesyv

   28.
   tjueåttende
   tjueaattende
   tjueåtte
   tjueaatte

   29.
   tjueniende
   tjueni

   30.
   trettiende
   tretti


   31.
   trettiførste
   trettifoerste
   trettien

   32.
   trettiandre
   trettito

   33.
   trettitredje
   trettitre

   34.
   trettifjerde
   trettifire

   35.
   trettifemte
   trettifem

   36.
   trettisjette
   trettiseks

   37.
   trettisyvende
   trettisyv

   38.
   trettiåttende
   trettiaattende
   trettiåtte
   trettiaatte

   39.
   trettiniende
   trettini

   40.
   førtiende
   foertiende
   førti
   foerti


   41.
   førtiførste
   foertifoerste
   førtien
   foertien

   42.
   førtiandre
   foertiandre
   førtito
   foertito

   43.
   førtitredje
   foertitredje
   førtitre
   foertitre

   44.
   førtifjerde
   foertifjerde
   førtifire
   foertifire

   45.
   førtifemte
   foertifemte
   førtifem
   foertifem

   46.
   førtisjette
   foertisjette
   førtiseks
   foertiseks

   47.
   førtisyvende
   foertisyvende
   førtisyv
   foertisyv

   48.
   førtiåttende
   foertiaattende
   førtiåtte
   foertiaatte

   49.
   førtiniende
   foertiniende
   førtini
   foertini

   50.
   femtiende
   femti


   51.
   femtiførste
   femtifoerste
   femtien

   52.
   femtiandre
   femtito

   53.
   femtitredje
   femtitre


=item B<Ignored words>

In writing out dates in common forms, there are a number of words
that are typically not important.

There is frequently a word that appears in a phrase to designate
that a time is going to be specified next.  In English, you would
use the word AT in the example:

   December 3 at 12:00

The following words may be used:

   kl
   kl.
   klokken


Another word is used to designate one member of a set.  In English,
you would use the words IN or OF:

   1st day OF December
   1st day IN December

The following words may be used:

   første
   foerste


Another word is use to specify that something is on a certain date.  In
English, you would use ON:

   ON July 5th

The following words may be used:

   på
   paa


=item B<Words that set the date, time, or both>

There are some words that can be used to specify a date, a
time, or both relative to now.

Words that set the date are similar to the English words 'yesterday'
or 'tomorrow'.  These are specified as a delta which is added to the
current time to get a date.  The time is NOT set however, so the delta
is only partially used (it should only include year, month, week, and
day fields).

The following words may be used:

   i dag                0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   i gaar               -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   i går                -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   i morgen             +0:0:0:1:0:0:0


Words that set only the time of day are similar to the English words
'noon' or 'midnight'.

The following words may be used:

   midnatt              00:00:00
   midt paa dagen       12:00:00
   midt på dagen        12:00:00


Words that set the entire time and date (relative to the current
time and date) are also available.

In English, the word 'now' is one of these.

The following words may be used:

   naa                  0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   nå                   0:0:0:0:0:0:0


=item B<Hour/Minute/Second separators>

When specifying the time of day, the most common separator is a colon (:)
which can be used for both separators.

Some languages use different pairs.  For example, French allows you to
specify the time as 13h30:20, so it would use the following pairs:

   : :
   h :

The first column is the hour-minute separator and the second column is
the minute-second separator.  Both are perl regular expressions.  When
creating a new translation, be aware that regular expressions with utf-8
characters may be tricky.  For example, don't include the expression '[x]'
where 'x' is a utf-8 character.

A pair of colons is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
additional pairs, they are listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=item B<Fractional second separator>

When specifying fractional seconds, the most common way is to use a
decimal point (.).  Some languages may specify a different separator
that might be used.  If this is done, it is a regular expression.

The decimal point is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
another separator, it is listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=back

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None known.

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the L<Date::Manip::Problems> documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Date::Manip>       - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
