# Copyright (c) 1998-2021 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

########################################################################
########################################################################

=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Lang::polish - Polish language support.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This module contains a list of words and expressions supporting
the language. It is not intended to be used directly (other
Date::Manip modules will load it as needed).

=head1 LANGUAGE EXPRESSIONS

The following is a list of all language words and expressions used
to write times and/or dates.

All strings are case insensitive.

=over 4

=item B<Month names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the month, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following month names may be used:

   stycznia

   luty

   marca

   kwietnia

   maja

   czerwca

   lipca

   sierpnia

   września
   wrzesnia

   października
   pazdziernika

   listopada

   grudnia


The following abbreviations may be used:

   sty
   sty.

   lut
   lut.

   mar
   mar.

   kwi
   kwi.

   maj

   cze
   cze.

   lip
   lip.

   sie
   sie.

   wrz
   wrz.

   paź
   paz.
   paź.
   paz

   lis
   lis.

   gru
   gru.


=item B<Day names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the day, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following day names may be used:

   poniedziałek
   poniedzialek

   wtorek

   środa
   sroda

   czwartek

   piątek
   piatek

   sobota

   niedziela


The following abbreviations may be used:

   po
   po.
   pon.
   pon

   wt
   wt.

   śr
   śr.
   sr.
   sr

   cz
   cz.
   czw.
   czw

   pi
   pi.

   so
   so.

   ni
   ni.


The following short (1-2 characters) abbreviations may be used:

   p

   w

   ś.
   e

   c

   p

   s

   n


=item B<Delta field names>

These are the names (and abbreviations) for the fields in a delta.  There are
7 fields: years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds.

The names and abbreviations for these fields are:

   rok
   lat
   lata
   latach

   miesiac
   miesiąc
   m.
   m
   miesiecy
   miesięcy
   miesiacu
   miesiącu

   tydzien
   tydzień
   ty.
   tygodniu

   dzien
   dzień
   d.
   dni

   godzinie
   g.
   godzina
   godziny

   minuty
   mn.
   min.
   minut

   sekundy
   s.
   sekund


=item B<Morning/afternoon times>

This is a list of expressions use to designate morning or afternoon time
when a time is entered as a 12-hour time rather than a 24-hour time.
For example, in English, the time "17:00" could be specified as "5:00 PM".

Morning and afternoon time may be designated by the following sets of
words:

   AM
   A.M.

   PM
   P.M.


=item B<Each or every>

There are a list of words that specify every occurrence of something.  These
are used in the following phrases:

   EACH Monday
   EVERY Monday
   EVERY month

The following words may be used:

   kazdy
   każdy
   kazdym
   każdym


=item B<Next/Previous/Last occurrence>

There are a list of words that may be used to specify the next,
previous, or last occurrence of something.  These words could be used
in the following phrases:

   NEXT week

   LAST Tuesday
   PREVIOUS Tuesday

   LAST day of the month

The following words may be used:

Next occurrence:

   nastepny
   następny
   nastepnym
   następnym
   przyszly
   przyszły
   przyszlym
   przyszłym


Previous occurrence:

   zeszly
   zeszły
   zeszlym
   zeszłym


Last occurrence:

   ostatni
   ostatna


=item B<Delta words for going forward/backward in time>

When parsing deltas, there are words that may be used to specify
the the delta will refer to a time in the future or to a time in
the past (relative to some date).  In English, for example, you
might say:

   IN 5 days
   5 days AGO

The following words may be used to specify deltas that refer to
dates in the past or future respectively:

   temu

   za
   later


=item B<Business mode>

This contains two lists of words which can be used to specify a standard
(i.e. non-business) delta or a business delta.

Previously, it was used to tell whether the delta was approximate or exact,
but now this list is not used except to force the delta to be standard.

The following words may be used:

   doklandnie
   dokłandnie
   w przyblizeniu
   w przybliżeniu
   mniej wiecej
   mniej więcej
   okolo
   około


The following words may be used to specify a business delta:

   sluzbowy
   służbowy
   sluzbowym
   służbowym


=item B<Numbers>

Numbers may be spelled out in a variety of ways.  The following sets correspond
to the numbers from 1 to 53:

   1.
   jeden
   pierwszego

   2.
   dwa
   drugiego

   3.
   trzy
   trzeczego

   4.
   cztery
   czwartego

   5.
   pięć
   piec
   piatego
   piątego

   6.
   sześć
   szesc
   szostego
   szóstego

   7.
   siedem
   siodmego
   siódmego

   8.
   osiem
   osmego
   ósmego

   9.
   dziewiąta
   dziewiata
   dziewiatego
   dziewiątego

   10.
   dziesięć
   dziesiec
   dziesiatego
   dziesiątego


   11.
   jedenaście
   jedenascie
   jedenastego

   12.
   dwanaście
   dwanascie
   dwunastego

   13.
   trzynaście
   trzynascie
   trzynastego

   14.
   czternaście
   czternascie
   czternastego

   15.
   piętnaście
   pietnascie
   pietnastego
   piętnastego

   16.
   szesnaście
   szesnascie
   szestnastego

   17.
   siedemnaście
   siedemnascie
   siedemnastego

   18.
   osiemnaście
   osiemnascie
   osiemnastego

   19.
   dziewiętnaście
   dziewietnascie
   dziewietnastego

   20.
   dwadzieścia
   dwadziescia
   dwudziestego


   21.
   dwadzieścia jeden
   dwadziescia jeden
   dwudziestego pierwszego

   22.
   dwadzieścia dwa
   dwadziescia dwa
   dwudziestego drugiego

   23.
   dwadzieścia trzy
   dwadziescia trzy
   dwudziestego trzeczego

   24.
   dwadzieścia cztery
   dwadziescia cztery
   dwudziestego czwartego

   25.
   dwadzieścia pięć
   dwadziescia piec
   dwudziestego piatego
   dwudziestego piątego

   26.
   dwadzieścia sześć
   dwadziescia szesc
   dwudziestego szostego
   dwudziestego szóstego

   27.
   dwadzieścia siedem
   dwadziescia siedem
   dwudziestego siodmego
   dwudziestego siódmego

   28.
   dwadzieścia osiem
   dwadziescia osiem
   dwudziestego osmego
   dwudziestego ósmego

   29.
   dwadzieścia dziewięć
   dwadziescia dziewiec
   dwudziestego dziewiatego
   dwudziestego dziewiątego

   30.
   trzydzieści
   trzydziesci
   trzydziestego


   31.
   trzydzieści jeden
   trzydziesci jeden
   trzydziestego pierwszego

   32.
   trzydzieści dwa
   trzydziesci dwa
   trzydziestego drugiego

   33.
   trzydzieści trzy
   trzydziesci trzy
   trzydziestego trzeczego

   34.
   trzydzieści cztery
   trzydziesci cztery
   trzydziestego czwartego

   35.
   trzydzieści pięć
   trzydziesci piec
   trzydziestego piątego
   trzydziestego piatego

   36.
   trzydzieści sześć
   trzydziesci szesc
   trzydziestego szóstego
   trzydziestego szostego

   37.
   trzydzieści siedem
   trzydziesci siedem
   trzydziestego siódmego
   trzydziestego siodmego

   38.
   trzydzieści osiem
   trzydziesci osiem
   trzydziestego ósmego
   trzydziestego osmego

   39.
   trzydzieści dziewięć
   trzydziesci dziewiec
   trzydziestego dziewiątego
   trzydziestego dziewiatego

   40.
   czterdzieści
   czterdziesci
   czterdziestego


   41.
   czterdzieści jeden
   czterdziesci jeden
   czterdziestego pierwszego

   42.
   czterdzieści dwa
   czterdziesci dwa
   czterdziestego drugiego

   43.
   czterdzieści trzy
   czterdziesci trzy
   czterdziestego trzeczego

   44.
   czterdzieści cztery
   czterdziesci cztery
   czterdziestego czwartego

   45.
   czterdzieści pięć
   czterdziesci piec
   czterdziestego piątego
   czterdziestego piatego

   46.
   czterdzieści sześć
   czterdziesci szesc
   czterdziestego szóstego
   czterdziestego szostego

   47.
   czterdzieści siedem
   czterdziesci siedem
   czterdziestego siódmego
   czterdziestego siodmego

   48.
   czterdzieści osiem
   czterdziesci osiem
   czterdziestego ósmego
   czterdziestego osmego

   49.
   czterdzieści dziewięć
   czterdziesci dziewiec
   czterdziestego dziewiątego
   czterdziestego dziewiatego

   50.
   pięćdziesiąt
   piecdziesiat
   pięćdziesiątego
   piecdziesiatego


   51.
   pięćdziesiąt jeden
   piecdziesiat jeden
   pięćdziesiątego pierwszego
   piecdziesiatego pierwszego

   52.
   pięćdziesiąt dwa
   piecdziesiat dwa
   pięćdziesiątego drugiego
   piecdziesiatego drugiego

   53.
   pięćdziesiąt trzy
   piecdziesiat trzy
   pięćdziesiątego trzeczego
   piecdziesiatego trzeczego


=item B<Ignored words>

In writing out dates in common forms, there are a number of words
that are typically not important.

There is frequently a word that appears in a phrase to designate
that a time is going to be specified next.  In English, you would
use the word AT in the example:

   December 3 at 12:00

The following words may be used:

   o
   u


Another word is used to designate one member of a set.  In English,
you would use the words IN or OF:

   1st day OF December
   1st day IN December

The following words may be used:

   w
   z


Another word is use to specify that something is on a certain date.  In
English, you would use ON:

   ON July 5th

The following words may be used:

   na


=item B<Words that set the date, time, or both>

There are some words that can be used to specify a date, a
time, or both relative to now.

Words that set the date are similar to the English words 'yesterday'
or 'tomorrow'.  These are specified as a delta which is added to the
current time to get a date.  The time is NOT set however, so the delta
is only partially used (it should only include year, month, week, and
day fields).

The following words may be used:

   dzisaj               0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   jutro                +0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   wczoraj              -0:0:0:1:0:0:0


Words that set only the time of day are similar to the English words
'noon' or 'midnight'.

The following words may be used:

   polnoc               00:00:00
   poludnie             12:00:00
   południe             12:00:00
   północ               00:00:00


Words that set the entire time and date (relative to the current
time and date) are also available.

In English, the word 'now' is one of these.

The following words may be used:

   teraz                0:0:0:0:0:0:0


=item B<Hour/Minute/Second separators>

When specifying the time of day, the most common separator is a colon (:)
which can be used for both separators.

Some languages use different pairs.  For example, French allows you to
specify the time as 13h30:20, so it would use the following pairs:

   : :
   h :

The first column is the hour-minute separator and the second column is
the minute-second separator.  Both are perl regular expressions.  When
creating a new translation, be aware that regular expressions with utf-8
characters may be tricky.  For example, don't include the expression '[x]'
where 'x' is a utf-8 character.

A pair of colons is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
additional pairs, they are listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=item B<Fractional second separator>

When specifying fractional seconds, the most common way is to use a
decimal point (.).  Some languages may specify a different separator
that might be used.  If this is done, it is a regular expression.

The decimal point is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
another separator, it is listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=back

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None known.

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the L<Date::Manip::Problems> documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Date::Manip>       - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
