# Copyright (c) 1999-2017 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

########################################################################
########################################################################

=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Lang::portugue - Portuguese language support.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This module contains a list of words and expressions supporting
the language. It is not intended to be used directly (other
Date::Manip modules will load it as needed).

=head1 LANGUAGE EXPRESSIONS

The following is a list of all language words and expressions used
to write times and/or dates.

All strings are case insensitive.

=over 4

=item B<Month names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the month, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following month names may be used:

   Janeiro

   Fevereiro

   Março
   Marco

   Abril

   Maio

   Junho

   Julho

   Agosto

   Setembro

   Outubro

   Novembro

   Dezembro


The following abbreviations may be used:

   Jan

   Fev

   Mar

   Abr

   Mai

   Jun

   Jul

   Ago

   Set

   Out

   Nov

   Dez


=item B<Day names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the day, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following day names may be used:

   segunda
   segunda-feira

   terça
   terca
   terça-feira
   terca-feira

   quarta
   quarta-feira

   quinta
   quinta-feira

   sexta
   sexta-feira

   sábado
   sabado

   domingo


The following abbreviations may be used:

   seg

   ter

   qua

   qui

   sex

   sáb
   sab

   dom


The following short (1-2 characters) abbreviations may be used:

   Sg

   T

   Qa

   Qi

   Sx

   Sb

   D


=item B<Delta field names>

These are the names (and abbreviations) for the fields in a delta.  There are
7 fields: years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds.

The names and abbreviations for these fields are:

   anos
   ano
   ans
   an
   a

   meses
   mês
   mes
   m

   semanas
   semana
   sem
   sems
   s

   dias
   dia
   d

   horas
   hora
   hr
   hrs

   minutos
   minuto
   min
   mn

   segundos
   segundo
   seg
   sg


=item B<Morning/afternoon times>

This is a list of expressions use to designate morning or afternoon time
when a time is entered as a 12-hour time rather than a 24-hour time.
For example, in English, the time "17:00" could be specified as "5:00 PM".

Morning and afternoon time may be designated by the following sets of
words:

   AM
   A.M.

   PM
   P.M.


=item B<Each or every>

There are a list of words that specify every occurrence of something.  These
are used in the following phrases:

   EACH Monday
   EVERY Monday
   EVERY month

The following words may be used:

   cada


=item B<Next/Previous/Last occurrence>

There are a list of words that may be used to specify the next,
previous, or last occurrence of something.  These words could be used
in the following phrases:

   NEXT week

   LAST Tuesday
   PREVIOUS Tuesday

   LAST day of the month

The following words may be used:

Next occurrence:

   proxima
   próxima
   proximo
   próximo


Previous occurrence:

   ultima
   última
   ultimo
   último


Last occurrence:

   ultimo
   último


=item B<Delta words for going forward/backward in time>

When parsing deltas, there are words that may be used to specify
the the delta will refer to a time in the future or to a time in
the past (relative to some date).  In English, for example, you
might say:

   IN 5 days
   5 days AGO

The following words may be used to specify deltas that refer to
dates in the past or future respectively:

   a
   à

   em
   passadas
   passados


=item B<Business mode>

This contains two lists of words which can be used to specify a standard
(i.e. non-business) delta or a business delta.

Previously, it was used to tell whether the delta was approximate or exact,
but now this list is not used except to force the delta to be standard.

The following words may be used:

   exactamente
   aproximadamente


The following words may be used to specify a business delta:

   util
   uteis


=item B<Numbers>

Numbers may be spelled out in a variety of ways.  The following sets correspond
to the numbers from 1 to 53:

   1º
   um
   primeiro

   2º
   dois
   segundo

   3º
   três
   tres
   terceiro

   4º
   quatro
   quarto

   5º
   cinco
   quinto

   6º
   seis
   sexto

   7º
   sete
   setimo
   sétimo

   8º
   oito
   oitavo

   9º
   nove
   nono

   10º
   dez
   decimo
   décimo


   11º
   onze
   decimo primeiro
   décimo primeiro

   12º
   doze
   decimo segundo
   décimo segundo

   13º
   treze
   decimo terceiro
   décimo terceiro

   14º
   quatorze
   decimo quarto
   décimo quarto

   15º
   quinze
   decimo quinto
   décimo quinto

   16º
   dezasseis
   decimo sexto
   décimo sexto

   17º
   dezessete
   decimo setimo
   décimo sétimo

   18º
   dezoito
   decimo oitavo
   décimo oitavo

   19º
   dezanove
   decimo nono
   décimo nono

   20º
   vinte
   vigesimo
   vigésimo


   21º
   vinte e um
   vigesimo primeiro
   vigésimo primeiro

   22º
   vinte e dois
   vigesimo segundo
   vigésimo segundo

   23º
   vinte e três
   vinte e tres
   vigesimo terceiro
   vigésimo terceiro

   24º
   vinte e quatro
   vigesimo quarto
   vigésimo quarto

   25º
   vinte cinco
   vigesimo quinto
   vigésimo quinto

   26º
   vinte seis
   vigesimo sexto
   vigésimo sexto

   27º
   vinte sete
   vigesimo setimo
   vigésimo sétimo

   28º
   vinte e oito
   vigesimo oitavo
   vigésimo oitavo

   29º
   vinte e nove
   vigesimo nono
   vigésimo nono

   30º
   trinta
   trigesimo
   trigésimo


   31º
   trinta e um
   trigesimo primeiro
   trigésimo primeiro

   32º
   trinta e dois
   trigésimo segundo
   trigesimo segundo

   33º
   trinta e três
   trinta e tres
   trigésimo terceiro
   trigesimo terceiro

   34º
   trinta e quatro
   trigésimo quarto
   trigesimo quarto

   35º
   trinta e cinco
   trigésimo quinto
   trigesimo quinto

   36º
   trinta e seis
   trigésimo sexto
   trigesimo sexto

   37º
   trinta e sete
   trigésimo sétimo
   trigesimo setimo

   38º
   trinta e oito
   trigésimo oitavo
   trigesimo oitavo

   39º
   trinta e nove
   trigésimo nono
   trigesimo nono

   40º
   quarenta
   quadragésimo
   quadragesimo


   41º
   quarenta e um
   quadragésimo primeiro
   quadragesimo primeiro

   42º
   quarenta e dois
   quadragésimo segundo
   quadragesimo segundo

   43º
   quarenta e três
   quarenta e tres
   quadragésimo terceiro
   quadragesimo terceiro

   44º
   quarenta e quatro
   quadragésimo quarto
   quadragesimo quarto

   45º
   quarenta e cinco
   quadragésimo quinto
   quadragesimo quinto

   46º
   quarenta e seis
   quadragésimo sexto
   quadragesimo sexto

   47º
   quarenta e sete
   quadragésimo sétimo
   quadragesimo setimo

   48º
   quarenta e oito
   quadragésimo oitavo
   quadragesimo oitavo

   49º
   quarenta e nove
   quadragésimo nono
   quadragesimo nono

   50º
   cinquenta
   quinquagésimo
   quinquagesimo


   51º
   cinquenta e um
   quinquagésimo primeiro
   quinquagesimo primeiro

   52º
   cinquenta e dois
   quinquagésimo segundo
   quinquagesimo segundo

   53º
   cinqüenta e três anos
   cinquenta e tres anos
   quinquagésimo terceiro
   quinquagesimo terceiro


=item B<Ignored words>

In writing out dates in common forms, there are a number of words
that are typically not important.

There is frequently a word that appears in a phrase to designate
that a time is going to be specified next.  In English, you would
use the word AT in the example:

   December 3 at 12:00

The following words may be used:

   as
   às


Another word is used to designate one member of a set.  In English,
you would use the words IN or OF:

   1st day OF December
   1st day IN December

The following words may be used:

   da
   do


Another word is use to specify that something is on a certain date.  In
English, you would use ON:

   ON July 5th

The following words may be used:

   na
   no


=item B<Words that set the date, time, or both>

There are some words that can be used to specify a date, a
time, or both relative to now.

Words that set the date are similar to the English words 'yesterday'
or 'tomorrow'.  These are specified as a delta which is added to the
current time to get a date.  The time is NOT set however, so the delta
is only partially used (it should only include year, month, week, and
day fields).

The following words may be used:

   amanha               +0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   amanhã               +0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   hoje                 0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   ontem                -0:0:0:1:0:0:0


Words that set only the time of day are similar to the English words
'noon' or 'midnight'.

The following words may be used:

   meia-noite           00:00:00
   meio-dia             12:00:00


Words that set the entire time and date (relative to the current
time and date) are also available.

In English, the word 'now' is one of these.

The following words may be used:

   agora                0:0:0:0:0:0:0


=item B<Hour/Minute/Second separators>

When specifying the time of day, the most common separator is a colon (:)
which can be used for both separators.

Some languages use different pairs.  For example, French allows you to
specify the time as 13h30:20, so it would use the following pairs:

   : :
   h :

The first column is the hour-minute separator and the second column is
the minute-second separator.  Both are perl regular expressions.  When
creating a new translation, be aware that regular expressions with utf-8
characters may be tricky.  For example, don't include the expression '[x]'
where 'x' is a utf-8 character.

A pair of colons is ALWAY allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
additional pairs, they are listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=item B<Fractional second separator>

When specifying fractional seconds, the most common way is to use a
decimal point (.).  Some languages may specify a different separator
that might be used.  If this is done, it is a regular expression.

The decimal point is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
another separator, it is listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=back

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None known.

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the L<Date::Manip::Problems> documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Date::Manip>       - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
