# Copyright (c) 1999-2021 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

########################################################################
########################################################################

=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Lang::romanian - Romanian language support.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This module contains a list of words and expressions supporting
the language. It is not intended to be used directly (other
Date::Manip modules will load it as needed).

=head1 LANGUAGE EXPRESSIONS

The following is a list of all language words and expressions used
to write times and/or dates.

All strings are case insensitive.

=over 4

=item B<Month names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the month, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following month names may be used:

   ianuarie

   februarie

   martie

   aprilie

   mai

   iunie

   iulie

   august

   septembrie

   octombrie

   noiembrie

   decembrie


The following abbreviations may be used:

   ian

   feb
   febr

   mart

   apr

   mai

   iun

   iul

   aug

   sept

   oct

   nov

   dec


=item B<Day names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the day, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following day names may be used:

   luni

   marți
   marti
   marþi

   miercuri

   joi

   vineri

   sâmbătă
   sambata

   duminică
   duminica


The following abbreviations may be used:

   lun

   mar

   mie

   joi

   vin

   sâm
   sam

   dum


The following short (1-2 characters) abbreviations may be used:

   L

   Ma

   Mi

   J

   V

   S

   D


=item B<Delta field names>

These are the names (and abbreviations) for the fields in a delta.  There are
7 fields: years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds.

The names and abbreviations for these fields are:

   ani
   an
   a

   luna
   lună
   luni
   l

   saptamini
   săptămîni
   saptamina
   săptămîna
   sapt
   săpt

   zile
   zi
   z

   ora
   oră
   ore
   h

   minute
   min
   m

   secunde
   sec
   s


=item B<Morning/afternoon times>

This is a list of expressions use to designate morning or afternoon time
when a time is entered as a 12-hour time rather than a 24-hour time.
For example, in English, the time "17:00" could be specified as "5:00 PM".

Morning and afternoon time may be designated by the following sets of
words:

   AM
   A.M.

   PM
   P.M.


=item B<Each or every>

There are a list of words that specify every occurrence of something.  These
are used in the following phrases:

   EACH Monday
   EVERY Monday
   EVERY month

The following words may be used:

   fiecare


=item B<Next/Previous/Last occurrence>

There are a list of words that may be used to specify the next,
previous, or last occurrence of something.  These words could be used
in the following phrases:

   NEXT week

   LAST Tuesday
   PREVIOUS Tuesday

   LAST day of the month

The following words may be used:

Next occurrence:

   urmatoarea
   următoarea


Previous occurrence:

   precedenta
   ultima


Last occurrence:

   ultima


=item B<Delta words for going forward/backward in time>

When parsing deltas, there are words that may be used to specify
the the delta will refer to a time in the future or to a time in
the past (relative to some date).  In English, for example, you
might say:

   IN 5 days
   5 days AGO

The following words may be used to specify deltas that refer to
dates in the past or future respectively:

   in urma
   în urmă

   in
   în
   mai tirziu
   mai tîrziu


=item B<Business mode>

This contains two lists of words which can be used to specify a standard
(i.e. non-business) delta or a business delta.

Previously, it was used to tell whether the delta was approximate or exact,
but now this list is not used except to force the delta to be standard.

The following words may be used:

   exact
   aproximativ


The following words may be used to specify a business delta:

   lucratoare
   lucrătoare
   de lucru


=item B<Numbers>

Numbers may be spelled out in a variety of ways.  The following sets correspond
to the numbers from 1 to 53:

   a 1-a
   prima
   prima
   intii
   întîi
   unu

   a 2-a
   a doua
   a doua
   doi

   a 3-a
   a treia
   trei

   a 4-a
   a patra
   patru

   a 5-a
   a cincea
   cinci

   a 6-a
   a sasea
   a şasea
   sase
   şase

   a 7-a
   a saptea
   a şaptea
   sapte
   şapte

   a 8-a
   a opta
   opt

   a 9-a
   a noua
   noua
   nouă

   a 10-a
   a zecea
   zece


   a 11-a
   a unsprezecea
   unsprezece

   a 12-a
   a doisprezecea
   doisprezece

   a 13-a
   a treisprezecea
   treisprezece

   a 14-a
   a patrusprezecea
   patrusprezece
   paisprezece

   a 15-a
   a cincisprezecea
   cincisprezece

   a 16-a
   a saiprezecea
   a şaiprezecea
   saiprezece
   şaiprezece

   a 17-a
   a saptesprezecea
   a şaptesprezecea
   saptesprezece
   şaptesprezece

   a 18-a
   a optsprezecea
   optsprezece

   a 19-a
   a nouasprezecea
   a nouăsprezecea
   nouasprezece
   nouăsprezece

   a 20-a
   a douazecea
   a douăzecea
   douazeci
   douăzeci


   a 21-a
   a douazecisiuna
   a douăzecişiuna
   douazecisiunu
   douăzecişiunu

   a 22-a
   a douazecisidoua
   a douăzecişidoua
   douazecisidoi
   douăzecişidoi

   a 23-a
   a douazecisitreia
   a douăzecişitreia
   douazecisitrei
   douăzecişitrei

   a 24-a
   a douazecisipatra
   a douăzecişipatra
   douazecisipatru
   douăzecisipatru

   a 25-a
   a douazecisicincea
   a douăzecişicincea
   douazecisicinci
   douăzecişicinci

   a 26-a
   a douazecisisasea
   a douăzecişişasea
   douazecisisase
   douăzecişişase

   a 27-a
   a douazecisisaptea
   a douăzecişişaptea
   douazecisisapte
   douăzecişişapte

   a 28-a
   a douazecisiopta
   a douăzecişiopta
   douazecisiopt
   douăzecişiopt

   a 29-a
   a douazecisinoua
   a douăzecişinoua
   douazecisinoua
   douăzecişinouă

   a 30-a
   a treizecea
   treizeci


   a 31-a
   a treizecisiuna
   a treizecişiuna
   treizecisiunu
   treizecişiunu

   a 32-a
   a treizecisidoua
   a treizecişdoua
   treizecişidoi
   treizecisidoi

   a 33-a
   a treizecisitreia
   a treizeciştreia
   treizecişitrei
   treizecisitrei

   a 34-a
   a treizecisipatra
   a treizecişpatra
   treizecişipatru
   treizecisipatru

   a 35-a
   a treizecisicincea
   a treizecişcincea
   treizecişicinci
   treizecisicinci

   a 36-a
   a treizecisisasea
   a treizecişşasea
   treizecişişase
   treizecisisase

   a 37-a
   a treizecisisaptea
   a treizecişşaptea
   treizecişişapte
   treizecisisapte

   a 38-a
   a treizecisiopta
   a treizecişopta
   treizecişiopt
   treizecisiopt

   a 39-a
   a treizecisinoua
   a treizecişnoua
   treizecişinouă
   treizecisinoua

   a 40-a
   a patruzecea
   patruzeci


   a 41-a
   a patruzecisiuna
   a patruzecişiuna
   patruzecisiunu
   patruzecişiunu

   a 42-a
   a patruzecisidoua
   a patruzecişidoua
   patruzecişidoi
   patruzecisidoi

   a 43-a
   a patruzecisitreia
   a patruzecişitreia
   patruzecişitrei
   patruzecisitrei

   a 44-a
   a patruzecisipatra
   a patruzecişipatra
   patruzecişipatru
   patruzecisipatru

   a 45-a
   a patruzecisicincea
   a patruzecişicincea
   patruzecişicinci
   patruzecisicinci

   a 46-a
   a patruzecisisasea
   a patruzecişişasea
   patruzecişişase
   patruzecisisase

   a 47-a
   a patruzecisisaptea
   a patruzecişişaptea
   patruzecişişapte
   patruzecisisapte

   a 48-a
   a patruzecisiopta
   a patruzecişiopta
   patruzecişiopt
   patruzecisiopt

   a 49-a
   a patruzecisinoua
   a patruzecişinoua
   patruzecişinouă
   patruzecisinoua

   a 50-a
   a cincizecea
   cincizeci


   a 51-a
   a cincizecisiuna
   a cincizecişiuna
   cincizecisiunu
   cincizecişiunu

   a 52-a
   a cincizecisidoua
   a cincizecişidoua
   cincizecişidoi
   cincizecisidoi

   a 53-a
   a cincizecisitreia
   a cincizecişitreia
   cincizecişitrei
   cincizecisitrei


=item B<Ignored words>

In writing out dates in common forms, there are a number of words
that are typically not important.

There is frequently a word that appears in a phrase to designate
that a time is going to be specified next.  In English, you would
use the word AT in the example:

   December 3 at 12:00

The following words may be used:

   la


Another word is used to designate one member of a set.  In English,
you would use the words IN or OF:

   1st day OF December
   1st day IN December

The following words may be used:

   din
   in
   n


Another word is use to specify that something is on a certain date.  In
English, you would use ON:

   ON July 5th

The following words may be used:

   on


=item B<Words that set the date, time, or both>

There are some words that can be used to specify a date, a
time, or both relative to now.

Words that set the date are similar to the English words 'yesterday'
or 'tomorrow'.  These are specified as a delta which is added to the
current time to get a date.  The time is NOT set however, so the delta
is only partially used (it should only include year, month, week, and
day fields).

The following words may be used:

   alaltaieri           -0:0:0:2:0:0:0
   alaltăieri           -0:0:0:2:0:0:0
   astazi               0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   astăzi               0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   azi                  0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   ieri                 -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   miine                +0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   mîine                +0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   poimiine             +0:0:0:2:0:0:0
   poimîine             +0:0:0:2:0:0:0


Words that set only the time of day are similar to the English words
'noon' or 'midnight'.

The following words may be used:

   amiaza               12:00:00
   amiază               12:00:00
   miezul noptii        00:00:00
   miezul nopții        00:00:00


Words that set the entire time and date (relative to the current
time and date) are also available.

In English, the word 'now' is one of these.

The following words may be used:

   acum                 0:0:0:0:0:0:0


=item B<Hour/Minute/Second separators>

When specifying the time of day, the most common separator is a colon (:)
which can be used for both separators.

Some languages use different pairs.  For example, French allows you to
specify the time as 13h30:20, so it would use the following pairs:

   : :
   h :

The first column is the hour-minute separator and the second column is
the minute-second separator.  Both are perl regular expressions.  When
creating a new translation, be aware that regular expressions with utf-8
characters may be tricky.  For example, don't include the expression '[x]'
where 'x' is a utf-8 character.

A pair of colons is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
additional pairs, they are listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=item B<Fractional second separator>

When specifying fractional seconds, the most common way is to use a
decimal point (.).  Some languages may specify a different separator
that might be used.  If this is done, it is a regular expression.

The decimal point is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
another separator, it is listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=back

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None known.

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the L<Date::Manip::Problems> documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Date::Manip>       - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
