# Copyright (c) 2001-2017 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

########################################################################
########################################################################

=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Lang::russian - Russian language support.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This module contains a list of words and expressions supporting
the language. It is not intended to be used directly (other
Date::Manip modules will load it as needed).

=head1 LANGUAGE EXPRESSIONS

The following is a list of all language words and expressions used
to write times and/or dates.

All strings are case insensitive.

=over 4

=item B<Month names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the month, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following month names may be used:

   января
   январь

   февраля
   февраль

   марта
   март

   апреля
   апрель

   мая
   май

   июня
   июнь

   июля
   июль

   августа
   август

   сентября
   сентябрь

   октября
   октябрь

   ноября
   ноябрь

   декабря
   декабрь


The following abbreviations may be used:

   янв
   янв.

   фев
   фвр
   февр.

   мрт
   марта
   март

   апр
   апр.

   май
   мая

   июн
   июня
   июнь

   июл
   июля
   июль

   авг
   авг.

   снт
   сен
   сент.

   окт
   окт.

   нояб
   ноя
   нояб.

   дек
   дек.


=item B<Day names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the day, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following day names may be used:

   понедельник

   вторник

   среда

   четверг

   пятница

   суббота

   воскресенье


The following abbreviations may be used:

   пнд
   пн
   пон

   втр
   вт
   вто

   срд
   ср
   срe

   чтв
   чт
   чет

   птн
   пт
   пят

   суб
   сб
   суб

   вск
   вс
   воск


The following short (1-2 characters) abbreviations may be used:

   пн

   вт

   ср

   чт

   пт

   сб

   вс


=item B<Delta field names>

These are the names (and abbreviations) for the fields in a delta.  There are
7 fields: years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds.

The names and abbreviations for these fields are:

   г
   гд
   год
   лет
   лет
   года

   мес
   месяц
   месяцев

   неделя
   недель
   недели
   неделю

   д
   день
   дней
   дня

   ч
   ч.
   чс
   чсв
   час
   часов
   часа

   мн
   мин
   минута
   минут

   с
   сек
   секунда
   секунд


=item B<Morning/afternoon times>

This is a list of expressions use to designate morning or afternoon time
when a time is entered as a 12-hour time rather than a 24-hour time.
For example, in English, the time "17:00" could be specified as "5:00 PM".

Morning and afternoon time may be designated by the following sets of
words:

   ДП
   дп
   Д.П.
   ночи
   утра
   до полудня

   ПП
   пп
   П.П.
   дня
   вечера
   после полудня
   по полудню
   пополудню


=item B<Each or every>

There are a list of words that specify every occurrence of something.  These
are used in the following phrases:

   EACH Monday
   EVERY Monday
   EVERY month

The following words may be used:

   каждый


=item B<Next/Previous/Last occurrence>

There are a list of words that may be used to specify the next,
previous, or last occurrence of something.  These words could be used
in the following phrases:

   NEXT week

   LAST Tuesday
   PREVIOUS Tuesday

   LAST day of the month

The following words may be used:

Next occurrence:

   следующий


Previous occurrence:

   предыдущий


Last occurrence:

   последний


=item B<Delta words for going forward/backward in time>

When parsing deltas, there are words that may be used to specify
the the delta will refer to a time in the future or to a time in
the past (relative to some date).  In English, for example, you
might say:

   IN 5 days
   5 days AGO

The following words may be used to specify deltas that refer to
dates in the past or future respectively:

   назад на 

   вперед на
   позже


=item B<Business mode>

This contains two lists of words which can be used to specify a standard
(i.e. non-business) delta or a business delta.

Previously, it was used to tell whether the delta was approximate or exact,
but now this list is not used except to force the delta to be standard.

The following words may be used:

   точно
   примерно


The following words may be used to specify a business delta:

   рабочих


=item B<Numbers>

Numbers may be spelled out in a variety of ways.  The following sets correspond
to the numbers from 1 to 53:

   1
   первый
   первого
   первое
   один

   2
   второй
   второго
   второе
   два

   3
   третий
   третьего
   третье
   три

   4
   четвертый
   четвертого
   четвертое
   четыре

   5
   пятый
   пятого
   пятое
   пять

   6
   шестой
   шестого
   шестое
   шесть

   7
   седьмой
   седьмого
   седьмое
   семь

   8
   восьмой
   восьмого
   восьмое
   восемь

   9
   девятый
   девятого
   девятое
   девять

   10
   десятый
   десятого
   десятое
   десять


   11
   одиннадцатый
   одиннадцатого
   одиннадцатое
   одиннадцать

   12
   двенадчатый
   двенадцатого
   двенадцатое
   дванадцать

   13
   тренадцатый
   тренадцатого
   тренадцатое
   тринадцать

   14
   четырнадцатый
   четырнадцатого
   четырнадцатое
   четырнадцать

   15
   пятнадцатый
   пятнадцатого
   пятнадцатое
   пятнадцать

   16
   шестнадцатый
   шестнадцатого
   шестнадцатое
   шестнадцать

   17
   семьнадцатый
   семьнадцатого
   семьнадцатое
   семнадцать

   18
   восемьнадцатый
   восемьнадцатого
   восемьнадцатое
   восемнадцать

   19
   девятнадцатый
   девятнадцатого
   девятнадцатое
   девятнадцать

   20
   двадцатый
   двадцатого
   двадцатое
   двадцать


   21
   двадцать первый
   двадцать первого
   двадцать первое
   двадцать один

   22
   двадцать второй
   двадцать второе
   двадцать второе
   двадцать два

   23
   двадцать третий
   двадцать третьего
   двадцать третье
   двадцать три

   24
   двадцать четвертый
   двадцать четвертого
   двадцать четвертое
   двадцать четыре

   25
   двадцать пятый
   двадцать пятого
   двадцать пятое
   двадцать пять

   26
   двадцать шестой
   двадцать шестого
   двадцать шестое
   двадцать шесть

   27
   двадцать седьмой
   двадцать седьмого
   двадцать седьмое
   двадцать семь

   28
   двадцать восьмой
   двадцать восьмого
   двадцать восьмое
   двадцать восемь

   29
   двадцать девятый
   двадцать девятого
   двадцать девятое
   двадцать девять

   30
   тридцатый
   тридцатого
   тридцатое
   тридцать


   31
   тридцать первый
   тридцать первого
   тридцать первое
   тридцать один

   32
   тридцать второй
   тридцать второе
   тридцать второе
   тридцать два

   33
   тридцать третий
   тридцать третьего
   тридцать третье
   тридцать три

   34
   тридцать четвертый
   тридцать четвертого
   тридцать четвертое
   тридцать четыре

   35
   тридцать пятый
   тридцать пятого
   тридцать пятое
   тридцать пять

   36
   тридцать шестой
   тридцать шестого
   тридцать шестое
   тридцать шесть

   37
   тридцать седьмой
   тридцать седьмого
   тридцать седьмое
   тридцать семь

   38
   тридцать восьмой
   тридцать восьмого
   тридцать восьмое
   тридцать восемь

   39
   тридцать девятый
   тридцать девятого
   тридцать девятое
   тридцать девять

   40
   сороковой
   сорок


   41
   сорок первый
   сорок первого
   сорок первое
   сорок один

   42
   сорок второй
   сорок второе
   сорок второе
   сорок два

   43
   сорок третий
   сорок третьего
   сорок третье
   сорок три

   44
   сорок четвертый
   сорок четвертого
   сорок четвертое
   сорок четыре

   45
   сорок пятый
   сорок пятого
   сорок пятое
   сорок пять

   46
   сорок шестой
   сорок шестого
   сорок шестое
   сорок шесть

   47
   сорок седьмой
   сорок седьмого
   сорок седьмое
   сорок семь

   48
   сорок восьмой
   сорок восьмого
   сорок восьмое
   сорок восемь

   49
   сорок девятый
   сорок девятого
   сорок девятое
   сорок девять

   50
   пятидесятый
   пятидесятого
   пятидесятое
   пятьдесят


   51
   пятьдесят первый
   пятьдесят первого
   пятьдесят первое
   пятьдесят один

   52
   пятьдесят второй
   пятьдесят второе
   пятьдесят второе
   пятьдесят два

   53
   пятьдесят третий
   пятьдесят третьего
   пятьдесят третье
   пятьдесят три


=item B<Ignored words>

In writing out dates in common forms, there are a number of words
that are typically not important.

There is frequently a word that appears in a phrase to designate
that a time is going to be specified next.  In English, you would
use the word AT in the example:

   December 3 at 12:00

The following words may be used:

   в


Another word is used to designate one member of a set.  In English,
you would use the words IN or OF:

   1st day OF December
   1st day IN December

The following words may be used:

   Not defined in this language


Another word is use to specify that something is on a certain date.  In
English, you would use ON:

   ON July 5th

The following words may be used:

   в


=item B<Words that set the date, time, or both>

There are some words that can be used to specify a date, a
time, or both relative to now.

Words that set the date are similar to the English words 'yesterday'
or 'tomorrow'.  These are specified as a delta which is added to the
current time to get a date.  The time is NOT set however, so the delta
is only partially used (it should only include year, month, week, and
day fields).

The following words may be used:

   вчера                -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   завтра               +0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   позавчера            -0:0:0:2:0:0:0
   послезавтра          +0:0:0:2:0:0:0
   сегодня              0:0:0:0:0:0:0


Words that set only the time of day are similar to the English words
'noon' or 'midnight'.

The following words may be used:

   полдень              12:00:00
   полночь              00:00:00


Words that set the entire time and date (relative to the current
time and date) are also available.

In English, the word 'now' is one of these.

The following words may be used:

   сейчас               0:0:0:0:0:0:0


=item B<Hour/Minute/Second separators>

When specifying the time of day, the most common separator is a colon (:)
which can be used for both separators.

Some languages use different pairs.  For example, French allows you to
specify the time as 13h30:20, so it would use the following pairs:

   : :
   h :

The first column is the hour-minute separator and the second column is
the minute-second separator.  Both are perl regular expressions.  When
creating a new translation, be aware that regular expressions with utf-8
characters may be tricky.  For example, don't include the expression '[x]'
where 'x' is a utf-8 character.

A pair of colons is ALWAY allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
additional pairs, they are listed here:

   ч  м


=item B<Fractional second separator>

When specifying fractional seconds, the most common way is to use a
decimal point (.).  Some languages may specify a different separator
that might be used.  If this is done, it is a regular expression.

The decimal point is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
another separator, it is listed here:

с

=back

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None known.

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the L<Date::Manip::Problems> documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Date::Manip>       - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
