# Copyright (c) 1998-2017 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

########################################################################
########################################################################

=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Lang::spanish - Spanish language support.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This module contains a list of words and expressions supporting
the language. It is not intended to be used directly (other
Date::Manip modules will load it as needed).

=head1 LANGUAGE EXPRESSIONS

The following is a list of all language words and expressions used
to write times and/or dates.

All strings are case insensitive.

=over 4

=item B<Month names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the month, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following month names may be used:

   Enero

   Febrero

   Marzo

   Abril

   Mayo

   Junio

   Julio

   Agosto

   Septiembre

   Octubre

   Noviembre

   Diciembre


The following abbreviations may be used:

   Ene

   Feb

   Mar

   Abr

   May

   Jun

   Jul

   Ago

   Sep

   Oct

   Nov

   Dic


=item B<Day names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the day, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following day names may be used:

   Lunes

   Martes

   Miércoles
   Miercoles

   Jueves

   Viernes

   Sábado
   Sabado

   Domingo


The following abbreviations may be used:

   Lun

   Mar

   Mié
   Mie

   Jue

   Vie

   Sáb
   Sab

   Dom


The following short (1-2 characters) abbreviations may be used:

   L

   Ma

   Mi

   J

   V

   S

   D


=item B<Delta field names>

These are the names (and abbreviations) for the fields in a delta.  There are
7 fields: years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds.

The names and abbreviations for these fields are:

   anos
   a
   ano
   ano
   anos
   años
   año

   meses
   m
   mes

   semanas
   sem
   semana

   dias
   d
   dia
   días

   horas
   hr
   hrs
   hora

   minutos
   min
   min
   minuto

   segundos
   s
   seg
   segundo


=item B<Morning/afternoon times>

This is a list of expressions use to designate morning or afternoon time
when a time is entered as a 12-hour time rather than a 24-hour time.
For example, in English, the time "17:00" could be specified as "5:00 PM".

Morning and afternoon time may be designated by the following sets of
words:

   AM
   A.M.

   PM
   P.M.


=item B<Each or every>

There are a list of words that specify every occurrence of something.  These
are used in the following phrases:

   EACH Monday
   EVERY Monday
   EVERY month

The following words may be used:

   cada


=item B<Next/Previous/Last occurrence>

There are a list of words that may be used to specify the next,
previous, or last occurrence of something.  These words could be used
in the following phrases:

   NEXT week

   LAST Tuesday
   PREVIOUS Tuesday

   LAST day of the month

The following words may be used:

Next occurrence:

   siguiente


Previous occurrence:

   anterior


Last occurrence:

   ultimo
   último


=item B<Delta words for going forward/backward in time>

When parsing deltas, there are words that may be used to specify
the the delta will refer to a time in the future or to a time in
the past (relative to some date).  In English, for example, you
might say:

   IN 5 days
   5 days AGO

The following words may be used to specify deltas that refer to
dates in the past or future respectively:

   hace

   en
   later


=item B<Business mode>

This contains two lists of words which can be used to specify a standard
(i.e. non-business) delta or a business delta.

Previously, it was used to tell whether the delta was approximate or exact,
but now this list is not used except to force the delta to be standard.

The following words may be used:

   exactamente
   aproximadamente


The following words may be used to specify a business delta:

   laborales


=item B<Numbers>

Numbers may be spelled out in a variety of ways.  The following sets correspond
to the numbers from 1 to 53:

   1o
   1a
   uno
   una
   primero
   primera

   2o
   2a
   dos
   segundo
   segunda

   3o
   3a
   tres
   tercero
   tercera

   4o
   4a
   cuatro
   cuarto
   cuarta

   5o
   5a
   cinco
   quinto
   quinta

   6o
   6a
   seis
   sexto
   sexta

   7o
   7a
   siete
   séptimo
   séptima
   septimo
   septima

   8o
   8a
   ocho
   octavo
   octava

   9o
   9a
   nueve
   noveno
   novena

   10o
   10a
   diez
   décimo
   décima
   decimo
   decima


   11o
   11a
   once
   undécimo
   undecimo
   décimo primero
   décimo primera
   decimo primero
   decimo primera

   12o
   12a
   doce
   décimo segundo
   décimo segunda
   decimo segundo
   decimo segunda

   13o
   13a
   trece
   décimo tercero
   décimo tercera
   decimo tercero
   decimo tercera

   14o
   14a
   catorce
   décimo cuarto
   décimo cuarta
   decimo cuarto
   decimo cuarta

   15o
   15a
   quince
   décimo quinto
   décimo quinta
   decimo quinto
   decimo quinta

   16o
   16a
   dieciséis
   dieciseis
   décimo sexto
   décimo sexta
   decimo sexto
   decimo sexta

   17o
   17a
   diecisiete
   décimo séptimo
   décimo séptima
   decimo septimo
   decimo septima

   18o
   18a
   dieciocho
   décimo octavo
   décimo octava
   decimo octavo
   decimo octava

   19o
   19a
   diecinueve
   décimo noveno
   décimo novena
   decimo noveno
   decimo novena

   20o
   20a
   veinte
   vigesimo
   vigesima
   vigésimo
   vigésima


   21o
   21a
   veintiuno
   veintiuna
   veintiun
   vigésimo primero
   vigésimo primera
   vigesimo primero
   vigesimo primera

   22o
   22a
   veintidós
   veintidos
   vigésimo segundo
   vigésimo segunda
   vigesimo segundo
   vigesimo segunda

   23o
   23a
   veintitrés
   veintitres
   vigésimo tercero
   vigésimo tercera
   vigesimo tercero
   vigesimo tercera

   24o
   24a
   veinticuatro
   vigésimo cuarto
   vigésimo cuarta
   vigesimo cuarto
   vigesimo cuarta

   25o
   25a
   veinticinco
   vigésimo quinto
   vigésimo quinta
   vigesimo quinto
   vigesimo quinta

   26o
   26a
   veintiséis
   veintiseis
   vigésimo sexto
   vigésimo sexta
   vigesimo sexto
   vigesimo sexta

   27o
   27a
   veintisiete
   vigésimo séptimo
   vigésimo séptima
   vigesimo septimo
   vigesimo septima

   28o
   28a
   veintiocho
   vigésimo octavo
   vigésimo octava
   vigesimo octavo
   vigesimo octava

   29o
   29a
   veintinueve
   vigésimo noveno
   vigésimo novena
   vigesimo noveno
   vigesimo novena

   30o
   30a
   treinta
   trigésimo
   trigésima
   trigesimo
   trigesima


   31o
   31a
   treinta y uno
   treinta y una
   trigésimo primero
   trigésimo primera
   trigesimo primero
   trigesimo primera

   32o
   32a
   treinta y dos
   trigésimo segundo
   trigesimo segundo
   trigésimo segunda
   trigesimo segunda

   33o
   33a
   treinta y tres
   trigésimo tercero
   trigesimo tercero
   trigésimo tercera
   trigesimo tercera

   34o
   34a
   treinta y cuatro
   trigésimo cuarto
   trigesimo cuarto
   trigésimo cuarta
   trigesimo cuarta

   35o
   35a
   treinta y cinco
   trigésimo quinto
   trigesimo quinto
   trigésimo quinta
   trigesimo quinta

   36o
   36a
   treinta y seis
   trigésimo sexto
   trigesimo sexto
   trigésimo sexta
   trigesimo sexta

   37o
   37a
   treinta y siete
   trigésimo séptimo
   trigesimo septimo
   trigésimo séptima
   trigesimo septima

   38o
   38a
   treinta y ocho
   trigésimo octavo
   trigesimo octavo
   trigésimo octava
   trigesimo octava

   39o
   39a
   treinta y nueve
   trigésimo noveno
   trigesimo noveno
   trigésimo novena
   trigesimo novena

   40o
   40a
   cuarenta
   cuadragésimo
   cuadragesimo
   cuadragésima
   cuadragesima


   41o
   41a
   cuarenta y uno
   cuarenta y una
   cuadragésimo primero
   cuadragésimo primera
   cuadragesimo primero
   cuadragesimo primera

   42o
   42a
   cuarenta y dos
   cuadragésimo segundo
   cuadragesimo segundo
   cuadragésimo segunda
   cuadragesimo segunda

   43o
   43a
   cuarenta y tres
   cuadragésimo tercero
   cuadragesimo tercero
   cuadragésimo tercera
   cuadragesimo tercera

   44o
   44a
   cuarenta y cuatro
   cuadragésimo cuarto
   cuadragesimo cuarto
   cuadragésimo cuarta
   cuadragesimo cuarta

   45o
   45a
   cuarenta y cinco
   cuadragésimo quinto
   cuadragesimo quinto
   cuadragésimo quinta
   cuadragesimo quinta

   46o
   46a
   cuarenta y seis
   cuadragésimo sexto
   cuadragesimo sexto
   cuadragésimo sexta
   cuadragesimo sexta

   47o
   47a
   cuarenta y siete
   cuadragésimo séptimo
   cuadragesimo septimo
   cuadragésimo séptima
   cuadragesimo septima

   48o
   48a
   cuarenta y ocho
   cuadragésimo octavo
   cuadragesimo octavo
   cuadragésimo octava
   cuadragesimo octava

   49o
   49a
   cuarenta y nueve
   cuadragésimo noveno
   cuadragesimo noveno
   cuadragésimo novena
   cuadragesimo novena

   50o
   50a
   cincuenta
   quincuagésimo
   quincuagésima
   quincuagesimo
   quincuagesima


   51o
   51a
   cincuenta y uno
   cincuenta y una
   quincuagésimo primero
   quincuagésimo primera
   quincuagesimo primero
   quincuagesimo primera

   52o
   52a
   cincuenta y dos
   quincuagésimo segundo
   quincuagesimo segundo
   quincuagésimo segunda
   quincuagesimo segunda

   53o
   53a
   cincuenta y tres
   quincuagésimo tercero
   quincuagesimo tercero
   quincuagésimo tercera
   quincuagesimo tercera


=item B<Ignored words>

In writing out dates in common forms, there are a number of words
that are typically not important.

There is frequently a word that appears in a phrase to designate
that a time is going to be specified next.  In English, you would
use the word AT in the example:

   December 3 at 12:00

The following words may be used:

   a


Another word is used to designate one member of a set.  In English,
you would use the words IN or OF:

   1st day OF December
   1st day IN December

The following words may be used:

   en
   de


Another word is use to specify that something is on a certain date.  In
English, you would use ON:

   ON July 5th

The following words may be used:

   el


=item B<Words that set the date, time, or both>

There are some words that can be used to specify a date, a
time, or both relative to now.

Words that set the date are similar to the English words 'yesterday'
or 'tomorrow'.  These are specified as a delta which is added to the
current time to get a date.  The time is NOT set however, so the delta
is only partially used (it should only include year, month, week, and
day fields).

The following words may be used:

   Hoy                  0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   ayer                 -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   manana               +0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   mañana               +0:0:0:1:0:0:0


Words that set only the time of day are similar to the English words
'noon' or 'midnight'.

The following words may be used:

   medianoche           00:00:00
   mediodia             12:00:00


Words that set the entire time and date (relative to the current
time and date) are also available.

In English, the word 'now' is one of these.

The following words may be used:

   Ahora                0:0:0:0:0:0:0


=item B<Hour/Minute/Second separators>

When specifying the time of day, the most common separator is a colon (:)
which can be used for both separators.

Some languages use different pairs.  For example, French allows you to
specify the time as 13h30:20, so it would use the following pairs:

   : :
   h :

The first column is the hour-minute separator and the second column is
the minute-second separator.  Both are perl regular expressions.  When
creating a new translation, be aware that regular expressions with utf-8
characters may be tricky.  For example, don't include the expression '[x]'
where 'x' is a utf-8 character.

A pair of colons is ALWAY allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
additional pairs, they are listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=item B<Fractional second separator>

When specifying fractional seconds, the most common way is to use a
decimal point (.).  Some languages may specify a different separator
that might be used.  If this is done, it is a regular expression.

The decimal point is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
another separator, it is listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=back

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None known.

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the L<Date::Manip::Problems> documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Date::Manip>       - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
