# Copyright (c) 1996-2017 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

########################################################################
########################################################################

=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Lang::swedish - Swedish language support.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This module contains a list of words and expressions supporting
the language. It is not intended to be used directly (other
Date::Manip modules will load it as needed).

=head1 LANGUAGE EXPRESSIONS

The following is a list of all language words and expressions used
to write times and/or dates.

All strings are case insensitive.

=over 4

=item B<Month names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the month, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following month names may be used:

   Januari

   Februari

   Mars

   April

   Maj

   Juni

   Juli

   Augusti

   September

   Oktober

   November

   December


The following abbreviations may be used:

   Jan

   Feb

   Mar

   Apr

   Maj

   Jun

   Jul

   Aug

   Sep

   Okt

   Nov

   Dec


=item B<Day names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the day, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following day names may be used:

   Måndag
   Mandag

   Tisdag

   Onsdag

   Torsdag

   Fredag

   Lördag
   Lordag

   Söndag
   Sondag


The following abbreviations may be used:

   Mån
   Man

   Tis

   Ons

   Tor

   Fre

   Lör
   Lor

   Sön
   Son


The following short (1-2 characters) abbreviations may be used:

   M

   Ti

   O

   To

   F

   L

   S


=item B<Delta field names>

These are the names (and abbreviations) for the fields in a delta.  There are
7 fields: years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds.

The names and abbreviations for these fields are:

   ar
   år

   manader
   månader
   man
   manad
   mån
   månad

   veckor
   v
   vecka

   dagar
   d
   dag

   timmar
   t
   tim
   timme

   minuter
   m
   min
   minut

   sekunder
   s
   sek
   sekund


=item B<Morning/afternoon times>

This is a list of expressions use to designate morning or afternoon time
when a time is entered as a 12-hour time rather than a 24-hour time.
For example, in English, the time "17:00" could be specified as "5:00 PM".

Morning and afternoon time may be designated by the following sets of
words:

   FM

   EM


=item B<Each or every>

There are a list of words that specify every occurrence of something.  These
are used in the following phrases:

   EACH Monday
   EVERY Monday
   EVERY month

The following words may be used:

   varje


=item B<Next/Previous/Last occurrence>

There are a list of words that may be used to specify the next,
previous, or last occurrence of something.  These words could be used
in the following phrases:

   NEXT week

   LAST Tuesday
   PREVIOUS Tuesday

   LAST day of the month

The following words may be used:

Next occurrence:

   nasta
   nästa


Previous occurrence:

   forra
   förra


Last occurrence:

   forra
   förra
   senaste


=item B<Delta words for going forward/backward in time>

When parsing deltas, there are words that may be used to specify
the the delta will refer to a time in the future or to a time in
the past (relative to some date).  In English, for example, you
might say:

   IN 5 days
   5 days AGO

The following words may be used to specify deltas that refer to
dates in the past or future respectively:

   sedan

   om
   senare


=item B<Business mode>

This contains two lists of words which can be used to specify a standard
(i.e. non-business) delta or a business delta.

Previously, it was used to tell whether the delta was approximate or exact,
but now this list is not used except to force the delta to be standard.

The following words may be used:

   exakt
   ungefar
   ungefär


The following words may be used to specify a business delta:

   arbetsdag
   arbetsdagar


=item B<Numbers>

Numbers may be spelled out in a variety of ways.  The following sets correspond
to the numbers from 1 to 53:

   1:a
   en
   ett
   forsta
   första

   2:a
   två
   tva
   andra

   3:e
   tre
   tredje

   4:e
   fyra
   fjarde
   fjärde

   5:e
   fem
   femte

   6:e
   sex
   sjatte
   sjätte

   7:e
   sju
   sjunde

   8:e
   åtta
   atta
   attonde
   åttonde

   9:e
   nio
   nionde

   10:e
   tio
   tionde


   11:e
   elva
   elfte

   12:e
   tolv
   tolfte

   13:e
   tretton
   trettonde

   14:e
   fjorton
   fjortonde

   15:e
   femton
   femtonde

   16:e
   sexton
   sextonde

   17:e
   sjutton
   sjuttonde

   18:e
   arton
   artonde

   19:e
   nitton
   nittonde

   20:e
   tjugo
   tjugonde


   21:a
   tjugoen
   tjugoett
   tjugoforsta
   tjugoförsta

   22:a
   tjugotvå
   tjugotva
   tjugoandra

   23:e
   tjugotre
   tjugotredje

   24:e
   tjugofyra
   tjugofjarde
   tjugofjärde

   25:e
   tjugofem
   tjugofemte

   26:e
   tjugosex
   tjugosjatte
   tjugosjätte

   27:e
   tjugosju
   tjugosjunde

   28:e
   tjugoåtta
   tjugoatta
   tjugoattonde
   tjugoåttonde

   29:e
   tjugonio
   tjugonionde

   30:e
   trettio
   trettionde


   31:a
   trettioen
   trettioett
   trettioforsta
   trettioförsta

   32:a
   trettiotvå
   trettiotva
   trettioandra

   33:e
   trettiotre
   trettiotredje

   34:e
   trettiofyra
   trettiofjarde
   trettiofjärde

   35:e
   trettiofem
   trettiofemte

   36:e
   trettiosex
   trettiosjatte
   trettiosjätte

   37:e
   trettiosju
   trettiosjunde

   38:e
   trettioåtta
   trettioatta
   trettioattonde
   trettioåttonde

   39:e
   trettionio
   trettionionde

   40:e
   fyrtio
   fyrtionde


   41:a
   fyrtioen
   fyrtioett
   fyrtioforsta
   fyrtioförsta

   42:a
   fyrtiotvå
   fyrtiotva
   fyrtioandra

   43:e
   fyrtiotre
   fyrtiotredje

   44:e
   fyrtiofyra
   fyrtiofjarde
   fyrtiofjärde

   45:e
   fyrtiofem
   fyrtiofemte

   46:e
   fyrtiosex
   fyrtiosjatte
   fyrtiosjätte

   47:e
   fyrtiosju
   fyrtiosjunde

   48:e
   fyrtioåtta
   fyrtioatta
   fyrtioattonde
   fyrtioåttonde

   49:e
   fyrtionio
   fyrtionionde

   50:e
   femtio
   femtionde


   51:a
   femtioen
   femtioett
   femtioforsta
   femtioförsta

   52:a
   femtiotvå
   femtiotva
   femtioandra

   53:e
   femtiotre
   femtiotredje


=item B<Ignored words>

In writing out dates in common forms, there are a number of words
that are typically not important.

There is frequently a word that appears in a phrase to designate
that a time is going to be specified next.  In English, you would
use the word AT in the example:

   December 3 at 12:00

The following words may be used:

   kl
   kl.
   klockan


Another word is used to designate one member of a set.  In English,
you would use the words IN or OF:

   1st day OF December
   1st day IN December

The following words may be used:

   om


Another word is use to specify that something is on a certain date.  In
English, you would use ON:

   ON July 5th

The following words may be used:

   pa
   på


=item B<Words that set the date, time, or both>

There are some words that can be used to specify a date, a
time, or both relative to now.

Words that set the date are similar to the English words 'yesterday'
or 'tomorrow'.  These are specified as a delta which is added to the
current time to get a date.  The time is NOT set however, so the delta
is only partially used (it should only include year, month, week, and
day fields).

The following words may be used:

   i dag                0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   i gar                -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   i går                -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   i morgon             +0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   idag                 0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   igar                 -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   igår                 -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   imorgon              +0:0:0:1:0:0:0


Words that set only the time of day are similar to the English words
'noon' or 'midnight'.

The following words may be used:

   midnatt              00:00:00
   mitt pa dagen        12:00:00
   mitt på dagen        12:00:00


Words that set the entire time and date (relative to the current
time and date) are also available.

In English, the word 'now' is one of these.

The following words may be used:

   nu                   0:0:0:0:0:0:0


=item B<Hour/Minute/Second separators>

When specifying the time of day, the most common separator is a colon (:)
which can be used for both separators.

Some languages use different pairs.  For example, French allows you to
specify the time as 13h30:20, so it would use the following pairs:

   : :
   h :

The first column is the hour-minute separator and the second column is
the minute-second separator.  Both are perl regular expressions.  When
creating a new translation, be aware that regular expressions with utf-8
characters may be tricky.  For example, don't include the expression '[x]'
where 'x' is a utf-8 character.

A pair of colons is ALWAY allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
additional pairs, they are listed here:

   \.  :


=item B<Fractional second separator>

When specifying fractional seconds, the most common way is to use a
decimal point (.).  Some languages may specify a different separator
that might be used.  If this is done, it is a regular expression.

The decimal point is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
another separator, it is listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=back

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None known.

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the L<Date::Manip::Problems> documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Date::Manip>       - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
