# Copyright (c) 2001-2017 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

########################################################################
########################################################################

=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Lang::turkish - Turkish language support.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This module contains a list of words and expressions supporting
the language. It is not intended to be used directly (other
Date::Manip modules will load it as needed).

=head1 LANGUAGE EXPRESSIONS

The following is a list of all language words and expressions used
to write times and/or dates.

All strings are case insensitive.

=over 4

=item B<Month names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the month, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following month names may be used:

   ocak

   şubat
   subat

   mart

   nisan

   mayıs
   mayis

   haziran

   temmuz

   ağustos
   agustos

   eylül
   eylul

   ekim

   kasım
   kasim

   aralık
   aralik


The following abbreviations may be used:

   oca

   şub
   sub

   mar

   nis

   may

   haz

   tem

   ağu
   agu

   eyl

   eki

   kas

   ara


=item B<Day names and abbreviations>

When writing out the name of the day, several different variations may
exist including full names and abbreviations.

The following day names may be used:

   pazartesi

   salı
   sali

   çarşamba
   carsamba
   Çarşamba

   perşembe
   persembe

   cuma

   cumartesi

   pazar


The following abbreviations may be used:

   pzt

   sal

   çar
   car

   per

   cum

   cts
   cmt

   paz


The following short (1-2 characters) abbreviations may be used:

   Pt

   S

   Ç
   Cr

   Pr

   C

   Ct

   P


=item B<Delta field names>

These are the names (and abbreviations) for the fields in a delta.  There are
7 fields: years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds.

The names and abbreviations for these fields are:

   yil
   y

   ay
   a

   hafta
   h

   gun
   g

   saat
   s

   dakika
   dak
   d

   saniye
   sn


=item B<Morning/afternoon times>

This is a list of expressions use to designate morning or afternoon time
when a time is entered as a 12-hour time rather than a 24-hour time.
For example, in English, the time "17:00" could be specified as "5:00 PM".

Morning and afternoon time may be designated by the following sets of
words:

   ögleden önce
   ogleden once

   öğleden sonra
   ogleden sonra


=item B<Each or every>

There are a list of words that specify every occurrence of something.  These
are used in the following phrases:

   EACH Monday
   EVERY Monday
   EVERY month

The following words may be used:

   her


=item B<Next/Previous/Last occurrence>

There are a list of words that may be used to specify the next,
previous, or last occurrence of something.  These words could be used
in the following phrases:

   NEXT week

   LAST Tuesday
   PREVIOUS Tuesday

   LAST day of the month

The following words may be used:

Next occurrence:

   gelecek
   sonraki


Previous occurrence:

   onceki
   önceki


Last occurrence:

   son
   sonuncu


=item B<Delta words for going forward/backward in time>

When parsing deltas, there are words that may be used to specify
the the delta will refer to a time in the future or to a time in
the past (relative to some date).  In English, for example, you
might say:

   IN 5 days
   5 days AGO

The following words may be used to specify deltas that refer to
dates in the past or future respectively:

   gecmis
   geçmiş
   gecen
   geçen

   gelecek
   sonra


=item B<Business mode>

This contains two lists of words which can be used to specify a standard
(i.e. non-business) delta or a business delta.

Previously, it was used to tell whether the delta was approximate or exact,
but now this list is not used except to force the delta to be standard.

The following words may be used:

   tam
   yaklasik
   yaklaşık


The following words may be used to specify a business delta:

   is
   iş
   çalışma
   calisma


=item B<Numbers>

Numbers may be spelled out in a variety of ways.  The following sets correspond
to the numbers from 1 to 53:

   1.
   bir
   ilk
   birinci

   2.
   iki
   ikinci

   3.
   üç
   uc
   üçüncü
   ucuncu

   4.
   dört
   dort
   dördüncü
   dorduncu

   5.
   beş
   bes
   beşinci
   besinci

   6.
   altı
   alti
   altıncı

   7.
   yedi
   yedinci

   8.
   sekiz
   sekizinci

   9.
   dokuz
   dokuzuncu

   10.
   on
   onuncu


   11.
   on bir
   on birinci

   12.
   on iki
   on ikinci

   13.
   on üç
   on uc
   on üçüncü
   on ucuncu

   14.
   on dört
   on dort
   on dördüncü
   on dorduncu

   15.
   on beş
   on bes
   on beşinci
   on besinci

   16.
   on altı
   on alti
   on altıncı

   17.
   on yedi
   on yedinci

   18.
   on sekiz
   on sekizinci

   19.
   on dokuz
   on dokuzuncu

   20.
   yirmi
   yirminci


   21.
   yirmi bir
   yirminci birinci

   22.
   yirmi iki
   yirminci ikinci

   23.
   yirmi üç
   yirmi uc
   yirminci üçüncü
   yirminci ucuncu

   24.
   yirmi dört
   yirmi dort
   yirminci dördüncü
   yirminci dorduncu

   25.
   yirmi beş
   yirmi bes
   yirminci beşinci
   yirminci besinci

   26.
   yirmi altı
   yirmi alti
   yirminci altıncı

   27.
   yirmi yedi
   yirminci yedinci

   28.
   yirmi sekiz
   yirminci sekizinci

   29.
   yirmi dokuz
   yirminci dokuzuncu

   30.
   otuz
   otuzuncu


   31.
   otuz bir
   otuz birinci

   32.
   otuz iki
   otuz ikinci

   33.
   otuz üç
   otuz uc
   otuz üçüncü
   otuz ucuncu

   34.
   otuz dört
   otuz dort
   otuz dördüncü
   otuz dorduncu

   35.
   otuz beş
   otuz bes
   otuz beşinci
   otuz besinci

   36.
   otuz altı
   otuz alti
   otuz altıncı

   37.
   otuz yedi
   otuz yedinci

   38.
   otuz sekiz
   otuz sekizinci

   39.
   otuz dokuz
   otuz dokuzuncu

   40.
   kırk
   kirk
   kırkıncı
   kirkinci


   41.
   kırk bir
   kirk bir
   kırk birinci
   kirk birinci

   42.
   kırk iki
   kirk iki
   kırk ikinci
   kirk ikinci

   43.
   kırk üç
   kirk uc
   kırk üçüncü
   kirk ucuncu

   44.
   kırk dört
   kirk dort
   kırk dördüncü
   kirk dorduncu

   45.
   kırk beş
   kirk bes
   kırk beşinci
   kirk besinci

   46.
   kırk altı
   kirk alti
   kırk altıncı
   kirk altıncı

   47.
   kırk yedi
   kirk yedi
   kırk yedinci
   kirk yedinci

   48.
   kırk sekiz
   kirk sekiz
   kırk sekizinci
   kirk sekizinci

   49.
   kırk dokuz
   kirk dokuz
   kırk dokuzuncu
   kirk dokuzuncu

   50.
   elli
   ellinci


   51.
   elli bir
   elli birinci

   52.
   elli iki
   elli ikinci

   53.
   elli üç
   elli uc
   elli üçüncü
   elli ucuncu


=item B<Ignored words>

In writing out dates in common forms, there are a number of words
that are typically not important.

There is frequently a word that appears in a phrase to designate
that a time is going to be specified next.  In English, you would
use the word AT in the example:

   December 3 at 12:00

The following words may be used:

   saat


Another word is used to designate one member of a set.  In English,
you would use the words IN or OF:

   1st day OF December
   1st day IN December

The following words may be used:

   of


Another word is use to specify that something is on a certain date.  In
English, you would use ON:

   ON July 5th

The following words may be used:

   on


=item B<Words that set the date, time, or both>

There are some words that can be used to specify a date, a
time, or both relative to now.

Words that set the date are similar to the English words 'yesterday'
or 'tomorrow'.  These are specified as a delta which is added to the
current time to get a date.  The time is NOT set however, so the delta
is only partially used (it should only include year, month, week, and
day fields).

The following words may be used:

   bugun                0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   bugün                0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   dun                  -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   dün                  -0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   yarin                +0:0:0:1:0:0:0
   yarın                +0:0:0:1:0:0:0


Words that set only the time of day are similar to the English words
'noon' or 'midnight'.

The following words may be used:

   gece yarisi          00:00:00
   gece yarısı          00:00:00
   oglen                12:00:00
   yarim                12:30:00
   yarım                12:30:00
   öğlen                12:00:00


Words that set the entire time and date (relative to the current
time and date) are also available.

In English, the word 'now' is one of these.

The following words may be used:

   simdi                0:0:0:0:0:0:0
   şimdi                0:0:0:0:0:0:0


=item B<Hour/Minute/Second separators>

When specifying the time of day, the most common separator is a colon (:)
which can be used for both separators.

Some languages use different pairs.  For example, French allows you to
specify the time as 13h30:20, so it would use the following pairs:

   : :
   h :

The first column is the hour-minute separator and the second column is
the minute-second separator.  Both are perl regular expressions.  When
creating a new translation, be aware that regular expressions with utf-8
characters may be tricky.  For example, don't include the expression '[x]'
where 'x' is a utf-8 character.

A pair of colons is ALWAY allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
additional pairs, they are listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=item B<Fractional second separator>

When specifying fractional seconds, the most common way is to use a
decimal point (.).  Some languages may specify a different separator
that might be used.  If this is done, it is a regular expression.

The decimal point is ALWAYS allowed for all languages.  If a language allows
another separator, it is listed here:

   Not defined in this language


=back

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None known.

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the L<Date::Manip::Problems> documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Date::Manip>       - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
