=head1 NAME

Application Servers and Toolkits based on mod_perl

=head1 Description

There are several application servers and toolkits available designed
to run under mod_perl, which might provide you with inline-Perl
coding, or MVC (Model/View/Controller) frameworks.

You probably want to look at L<Choosing a Templating
system|docs::tutorials::tmpl::comparison::comparison> for more
information and in-depth analysis of some of the ones listed here.

The following frameworks are sorted alphabetically.

=head1 Apache::ASP

C<Apache::ASP> (http://www.apache-asp.org/) provides an Active Server
Pages port to the Apache Web Server with Perl scripting only, and
enables developing of dynamic web applications with session management
and embedded perl code. There are also many powerful extensions,
including XML taglibs, XSLT rendering, and new events not originally
part of the ASP API

=head1 Apache::PageKit

C<Apache::PageKit> (http://pagekit.org/) is a web application
framework that uses C<HTML::Template> and XML to separate the Model,
View, Content and Controller. Provides elegant solutions to many
difficult web programming problems, including session management,
language localization, authentication, form validation, and
co-branding.

=head1 AxKit

C<AxKit> (http://axkit.org/) is an XML Application Server for
Apache. It provides on-the-fly conversion from XML to any format, such
as HTML, WAP or text using either W3C standard techniques, or flexible
custom code. C<AxKit> also uses a built-in Perl interpreter to provide
some amazingly powerful techniques for XML transformation.

=head1 The bivio OLTP Platform (bOP)

The bivio OLTP Platform (http://www.bivio.biz/hm/why-bOP) (bOP) is a
declarative, multi-layered Perl application development framework.
Adapters have been written for Apache/mod_perl, sendmail, Oracle, and
Postgres.  The Model layer generates SQL for CRUD, lists, and HTTP
forms.  Views are content-independent hierarchies of widgets.  Tasks
control security, execution order, and state transitions.  Facades map
qualified names to URLs, strings, fonts, colors, icons, files, and
views.  bOP provides a full-suite of services including dynamic
tracing, configuration, logging, class loading, type hierarchy, unit
testing, and acceptance testing.

=head1 DataBreeze Web Database Platform

DataBreeze is written entirely in Perl and utilizes mod_perl within
Apache to speed performance. Feedback from the Perl/mod_perl/Apache
community is important. You may download the software for evaluation
at http://www.databreeze.com or simply logon and try DataBreeze
directly online.

DataBreeze is very different from typical development tools because it
utilizes a pre-built application framework that requires no
programming.  DataBreeze provides a template environment for building
database applications that list, search, explore and edit relational
data. The system includes integrated menus, forms, tree-views,
security, session/state management and more, all in a Web
Browser. DataBreeze can also be extended through the use of Event
programs using Perl.

This is not free software but nothing is hidden, the complete Perl
source code is included so that you may explore how it works.

=head1 Embperl

C<Embperl> (http://perl.apache.org/embperl/) is a system for building
dynamic websites with Perl.  It gives you the power to embed Perl code
in your HTML documents and the ability to build your Web site out of
small reusable objects in an object-oriented style. You can also take
advantage of all the usual Perl modules, (including C<DBI> for
database access) use their functionality and easily include their
output in your web pages.  Embperl has several features which are
especially useful for creating HTML, including dynamic tables, form
field processing, URL escaping/unescaping, session handling, and more.

=head1 Mason

C<Mason> (http://www.masonhq.com/) is a powerful Perl-based web site
development and delivery engine.  With C<Mason> you can embed Perl
code in your HTML and construct pages from shared, reusable
components.  C<Mason> solves the common problems of site development:
caching, debugging, templating, simulating browser conditions,
maintaining development and production sites, and more

=head1  OpenInteract

C<OpenInteract> (http://www.openinteract.org/) is a web application
environment written in perl and geared to run on the Apache web server
using the mod_perl plugin module. The environment is built to be not
only friendly to people editing and changing a website's content, but
also for the developers who can write code (or complex templates) and
create entire applications.

=head1 OpenFrame

C<OpenFrame> (http://openframe.fotango.com/) is an open source
application framework for distributed media applications. What all
this buzzword-compliant mumbo-jumbo really means is that with
OpenFrame you can write a single application for multiple downstream
clients (ie, Web, WAP, iDTV, Email) and not have to worry about much
except the presentation.

=head1 The Template Toolkit

The Template Toolkit (http://template-toolkit.org/) is a fast,
powerful and easily extensible template processing system written in
Perl. It is ideally suited (but not limited) to the creation of static
and dynamic web content. The C<Apache::Template> module provides an
Apache/mod_perl interface to the Template Toolkit, providing a quick
and simple way to integrate its processing power into your web site.


=head1 Uttu

C<Uttu> (http://uttu.tamu.edu/) is a web-application driver that
provides support for writing application frameworks.  This support
includes configuration, database connectivity, caching,
uri-to-filename translation, and application installation.  Uttu makes
working with multiple virtual hosts and C<HTML::Mason>, Template
Toolkit, or C<AxKit> almost trivial.

=cut

