=head1 NAME

Test::Memory

=cut

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This is a code snippet.

	use Test::Memory;

	my $memory = Test::Memory->new();

=cut

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A test of ones memory.

=cut

=head1 METHODS

=cut

=head2 Mind

The element of a person that enables them to be aware of the world and their experiences, to think, 
and to feel; the faculty of consciousness and thought.

	$memory->Mind();

=cut

=head3 Intelligence

A person or being with the ability to acquire and apply knowledge and skills.

	$memory->Mind->Intelligence();

=cut

=head4 Factual

Concerned with what is actually the case.

	$memory->Mind->Intelligence->Factual(%params);

=over

=item one

Oxford, Ticehurst and Potters Bar.

=item two

Koh Chang, Zakynthos and Barbados.

=item three

An event or occurrence which leaves an impression on someone.

=back

=cut

=head1 AUTHOR

LNATION, C<< <email at lnation.org> >>

=cut

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-test-memory at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<https://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Test-Memory>. I will
be notified, and then you'll automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.

=cut

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

	perldoc Test::Memory

You can also look for information at:

=over

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker (report bugs here)

L<https://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Test-Memory>

=item * Search CPAN

L<https://metacpan.org/release/Test-Memory>

=back

=cut

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

=cut

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

This software is Copyright (c) 2022 LNATION

This is free software, licensed under:

	The Artistic License 2.0 (GPL Compatible)

=cut