
=head1 NAME

NetApp::Qtree -- OO class for creating and managing qtrees

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use NetApp::Filer;
    use NetApp::Qtree;

    my $filer 	= NetApp::Filer->new( .... );

    # Create a tree, with all options in one call
    my $qtree	= $filer->create_qtree(
        name		=> "/vol/vol1/qtreename",
	oplocks		=> 1,
	mode		=> 0755,
	security	=> 'unix',
    );

    # Alternately, you can create it, and then change things
    my $qtree	= $filer->create_qtree(
        name		=> "/vol/vol1/qtreename",
        mode		=> 0755,
    );    
    
    # The mode must be set when created
    $qtree->set_oplock(1);
    $qtree->set_security('unix');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class encapsulates a single NetApp qtree, and provides methods
for querying information about the qtree, as well as methods for
managing it.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 set_security( $security )

This method method takes a single argument, which is the security
value to set on the qtree.  It must have one of the following values:

    unix
    ntfs
    mixed

=head2 get_security

Returns a string containing the current security setting
of the qtree.

=head2 set_oplocks( $boolean )

This method takes a boolean argument, and sets the oplocks attribute
of the qtree to "enabled" if the value is true, and "disabled" if the
value is false.

=head2 get_oplocks

Returns true is the oplocks are set to "enabled", false if
they are set to "disabled".

=head2 get_status

Returns the status value for the qtree.  It waill have the
values such as:

    normal
    snapmirrored

=head2 get_id

Returns the qtree id.

=head2 get_vfiler

Returns the vfiler which owns the qtree.  If vfilers are not licensed
on the filer, this method will simply return a false value.

=cut
