=head1 Termbox::PP

Termbox::PP is a minimalistic terminal UI library in pure Perl

=head2 Description

B<Termbox::PP> provides a small and consistent API for building
text-based user interfaces in Perl.

It focuses on the common subset of functionality shared across
modern terminal emulators, offering a simple and portable abstraction.

=head2 Features

=over

=item * Portable abstraction

Provides a minimal set of functions that work consistently across
different terminal environments.

=item * Small and simple API

The limited API surface makes the module easy to learn, test, and maintain.

=item * Pure Perl implementation

The module is implemented entirely in Perl and does not require XS or any 
external C libraries. On Unix platforms it only depends on core modules 
available since Perl L<v5.10|https://metacpan.org/release/DAPM/perl-5.10.1>. 

On Windows additional C<Win32::*> modules may be required for console and file 
handling; these are typically available with Strawberry Perl.

=back

=head2 Warning

This port of termbox2 is still quite new and still has to prove itself in 
production use and possibly be improved.

=head2 Install

To install the B<Termbox::PP> module type the following:

  cpan Termbox::PP

Manual install:

  perl Makefile.PL
  make
  make install

=head2 Examples

For examples of what you can do, see the various examples in the C<example/> 
directory. You can try them out via:
  
  perl example/hello_world.pl

=head1 Credits

B<Termbox::PP> is a port of L<termbox2|https://github.com/termbox/termbox2>.

=head2 Author

=over

=item * 2024-2026 J. Schneider E<lt>L<http://github.com/brickpool>E<gt>

=back

=head2 Copyright and Licence

=over

=item * Copyright (c) 2010-2026 by termbox developers

=item * MIT License

=back

=cut
