=head1 NAME

HTML::Puzzle - A framework to build web component based on database. (ver 0.12)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Not still available.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Not still available.

=head1 OBJECTS STRUCTURE

=head2 HTML::Puzzle::DBTable

Connection module to data tables

=head1  Prerequisites:

=over 4

=item * Perl version 5.6.0 or more recent.

=item * CPAN DBI module.

=item * A CPAN DBD driver module (currenty only Mysql are tested)

=back

=head1  Examples

Have a look to 

 http://www.ebruni.it/en/software/perl/cpan/html/puzzle/examples/ex1.htm

to see some examples on what you can simply do using this module.

=head1 BUGS

I am aware of no bugs - if you find one, send me an e-mail at info@ebruni.it
with bugs.

When submitting bug reports, be sure to include full details, including the VERSION of the
module, and a test script demonstrating the problem!

=head1 AUTHOR

Bruni Emiliano, info@ebruni.it

=head1 HOME PAGE

http://www.ebruni.it/en/software/perl/cpan/html/puzzle/index.htm

=head1 LICENSE

HTML::Puzzle -  A framework to built web component based on database. with Perl 
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Bruni Emiliano <info@ebruni.it>

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of
either:

a) the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; 
either version 2, or (at your option) any later version, or

b) the "Artistic License" which comes with this module.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See
either the GNU General Public License or the Artistic License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the Artistic License with this module, 
in the file ARTISTIC.  If not, I'll be glad to provide one.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if
not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA
02111-1307 USA

=head1 SEE ALSO

  HTML::Puzzle::DBTable

=cut
