=head1 NAME

Date::Lectionary::Daily - Daily Readings for the Christian Lectionary

=head1 VERSION

Version 1.20171127


=cut

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Time::Piece;
    use Date::Lectionary::Daily;

    my $dailyReading = Date::Lectionary::Daily->new('date' => Time::Piece->strptime("2017-12-24", "%Y-%m-%d"));
    say $dailyReading->readings->{evening}->{1}; #First lesson for evening prayer

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Date::Lectionary::Daily takes a Time::Piece date and returns ACNA readings for morning and evening prayer for that date.


=cut

=head1 SUBROUTINES/METHODS


=cut

=head2 BUILD

Constructor for the Date::Lectionary object.  Takes a Time::Piect object, C<date>, to create the object.


=cut

=head2 _parseLectDB

Private method to open and parse the lectionary XML to be used by other methods to XPATH queries.


=cut

=head2 _checkFixed

Private method to determine if the day given is a fixed holiday rather than a standard day.


=cut

=head2 _buildReadings

Private method that returns an ArrayRef of strings for the lectionary readings associated with the date.


=cut

=head1 AUTHOR

Michael Wayne Arnold, C<< <marmanold at cpan.org> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-date-lectionary-daily at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Date-Lectionary-Daily>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Date::Lectionary::Daily


You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker (report bugs here)

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Date-Lectionary-Daily>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Date-Lectionary-Daily>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Date-Lectionary-Daily>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Date-Lectionary-Daily/>

=back


=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Many thanks to my beautiful wife, Jennifer, and my amazing daughter, Rosemary.  But, above all, SOLI DEO GLORIA!

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2017 Michael Wayne Arnold.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See L<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/> for more information.



=cut

