=head1 NAME

Cheat::Meta::Spec - How to use the Cheat:: namespace

=head1 VERSION

This document is Cheat::Meta::Spec version 0.0.5

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    # lib/Cheat/Sheet/Some.perl
    Some::Module            # Short description
        qw( various exportable symbols if any );
        routine( $placeholder, @arguments );
        $context    = function( @arguments);
        $object->method();
    
    Some:OtherModule...
    
    # lib/Cheat/Sheet/Some.pod
    
    =head2 Some::Module
    
        Some::Module            # Short description
            qw( various exportable symbols if any );
            routine( $placeholder, @arguments );
            $context    = function( @arguments);
            $object->method();

    =head2 Some::OtherModule ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<But I caution you:> 

I<I was quite close to revealing rare and powerful cheat codes.>

--The Devil (Dinosaur Comics)

This is a collection of "cheat sheets": highly compressed, abbreviated 
documentation for various modules. Each module within the bundle covers a 
top-level namespace or a set of otherwise closely-related modules. 

If you want to I<read> cheat sheets, please check out L<Cheat::Meta>. 
You can just install L<Bundle::Cheat::Sheet>.

If you want to develop cheat sheets themselves, the current file is for you. 

=head1 RATIONALE

I created the Cheat:: top-level namespace and scheme after much hesitation 
and some encouragement. I discussed several alternatives; none satisfied. 

=head2 Namespace

Cheat sheets aren't executable code, not in the aggregate. Each line is 
formatted as valid Perl; that's its merit. But executing a whole cheat is 
madness. This presents a problem when searching for a top-level namespace. 

Modules under B<Doc::> seem to be tools for manipulating documentation. 
B<Documentation::> is no better. Cheat sheets are not manuals or templates. 

Other documentation on the CPAN is usually specific to another module or 
tightly-related group of modules. For example, L<Template::Manual> documents 
L<Template> and other modules within Template Toolkit. It wouldn't be nice to 
drop, say, B<Template::Cheat::Sheet> into that namespace. Also, not every 
cheat sheet falls neatly under a single namespace. L<Cheat::Sheet::Util> 
covers L<Scalar::Util>, L<List::Util>, L<Hash::Util>.... Where should it go?

L<perlcheat>.pod is in core. L<OpenResty::CheatSheet> exists and is a fair 
example of the cheat sheet style; but again, I don't want to pollute other 
namespaces. 

There doesn't seem to be a workable alternative to a new namespace. 

=head2 File Formats

To be useful, cheat sheets must be available as plain text files that can be 
opened in a user's code editor. These are not tutorials or even working demos. 
User is expected to copy one or more lines directly from the cheat sheet, 
paste into his ongoing project, and edit to suit. 

Syntax highlighting or coloring is important to some users. Colors reveal the 
intent of various tokens. In a cheat sheet, it's important to be able to see 
immediately which tokens are literal and which placeholders. 
It could be argued that an entirely different coloring scheme (than is normal) 
would be even better; but I don't see that's going to happen. 

When a Perl module is loaded, all C<use()> statements are executed 
(at "compile-time"), as if they were enclosed in a BEGIN block. 
Since a cheat sheet naturally includes many such statements, formatting one 
as an ordinary Perl module causes each cheated module to load. 
This might be correct from some very formal viewpoint but is rude. 

So, presenting the cheat sheet as code in a C<.pm> file is out. 
Presentation as POD means that syntax coloring is lost. 
Also, verbatim code tends to copy out with too much, 
often incorrect, indentation. However, CPAN demands, and some users expect, 
code in POD format. So, a C<.pod> file -- POD only file -- is given. 

Cheat sheets aren't tests or scripts. The only rational extension I can see 
for naming the raw code-only files is C<.perl>.

When authoring a cheat sheet, I decided to write a base or source file. 
A little utility script, C<util/cheat-build.pl>, uses L<Template> 
(Template::Toolkit, TT) and a pair of C<.tt2> template files to generate the 
usable cheats in C<.perl> and C<.pod> forms. I settled on the unusual C<.agi> 
extension for these source files. They have nothing whatever to do with AGI. 

=head1 DEVELOPERS

If you want to write a cheat sheet, great! Obviously, you might start by 
looking through the files of I<this> distribution. 
I'm a great believer in consistency. 

Each cheat sheet should be released in both POD and raw Perl forms. 
You're welcome to use existing files as models. Please name a cheat for Foo 
as B<Cheat::Sheet::Foo>. Expect to install (for some lib/): 

=over

=item lib/Cheat/Sheet/Foo.perl

Raw Perl code. 

=item lib/Cheat/Sheet/Foo.pod

Same content as POD verbatim paragraphs.

I<Please seriously consider> contacting the maintainer of 
L<Bundle::Cheat::Sheet>! I will be happy to assist you and I will include 
your properly-formatted cheat sheets in the Bundle. You can still package and 
upload them yourself and get all the credit. 
I would like to avoid naming conflicts and duplication of effort; 
please contact me I<before> starting work. 

Naturally, suggestions for cheat sheets, new or old, are always welcome. 

=back

=head1 THANKS

=over

=item *

To about 8500 authors who have uploaded about 85,000 modules to the CPAN. 

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Xiong Changnian  C<< <xiong@cpan.org> >>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2010 Xiong Changnian C<< <xiong@cpan.org> >>

This library and its contents are released under Artistic License 2.0:

L<http://www.opensource.org/licenses/artistic-license-2.0.php>

=cut
