=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Wrapper::SpamAssassin - Connect a Mail::Message with Mail::SpamAssassin

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Wrapper::SpamAssassin
   is a Mail::SpamAssassin::Message

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # WARNING: requires OLD SpamAssassion 2.x, not the new 3.x
 # See Mail::Box::Search::SpamAssassin for the preferred interface
 # However, it is possible to do:

 my $msg    = ...;   # some Mail::Message object
 my $sa     = Mail::Message::Wrapper::SpamAssassin->new($msg);
 my $spam   = Mail::SpamAssassin->new;
 my $status = $spam->check($sa);

 $msg->label(spam => 1) if $status->is_spam;
 $status->rewrite_mail;  # Adds spam lines to header

=head1 DESCRIPTION

WARNING: This module only works with the old version of SpamAssassin:
version 2.x.  The newer 3.x releases have changed the way that messages
are kept. Please contribute improved code.

The C<Mail::Message::Wrapper::SpamAssassin> class --sorry for the
long package name-- is a wrapper around Mail::SpamAssassin::Message, which
is an interface to the spam checking software of Mail::SpamAssassin.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item Mail::Message::Wrapper::SpamAssassin-E<gt>B<new>($message, %options)

Creates a wrapper around the $message.  The already present fields
from a previous run of Spam::Assassin (or probably fake lines) are
removed first.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 3.002,
built on March 31, 2017.

Do not forget to read
L<Mail::Box-Overview>,
L<Mail::Box-Cookbook>, and
L<Mail::Box-Index>.
Examples are included in the Mail-Box distribution, directories 'examples'
and 'scripts'.

Browseable manuals, papers, and other released material van be found
at  Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

The central modules (in separate distributions) in the MailBox suite are:
L<Mail::Message>,
L<Mail::Box>,
L<Mail::Box::IMAP4>,
L<Mail::Box::POP3>,
L<Mail::Box::Parser::C>,
L<Mail::Box::Dbx> (unpublished),
L<Mail::Transport>,
L<Object::Realize::Later>, and
L<User::Identity>.

Please post questions or ideas to the author F<markov@cpan.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the Artistic license.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/artistic.html>

