=head1 NAME

Pg::SQL::PrettyPrinter::Node::FuncCall - Class representing single constant value

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Not to be used directly.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

Aside from functions listed below, it inherits functions from
L<Pg::SQL::PrettyPrinter::Node>.

=head2 new

Makes object, first using parent's constructur, and then "unpacks" it's name
and args keys.

=head2 func_name

Full, quoted, function name.

=head2 over_clause_as_text

In case of window function, returns whole C< OVER () > clause as plain text.

If it's called for non-window function, returns empty string.

=head2 over_clause_pretty

In case of window function, returns whole C< OVER () > clause as pretty
printed text.

If it's called for non-window function, returns empty string.

=head2 frame_clause

In case of window functions with custom frame defitnion returns the frame
definition as plain text. Otherwise returns undef.

=head2 get_agg_order

Returns empty string, if there is no aggregate order, or aggregate order as
text.

This is used for queries like:

    select string_agg(a, ',' order by a)

=head2 as_text

Returns this object as plain text, with next to none formatting.

=head2 pretty_print

Returns this object as text using pretty printing.

=head1 AUTHOR

hubert depesz lubaczewski, C<< <depesz at depesz.com> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<depesz at depesz.com>.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Pg::SQL::PrettyPrinter::Node::FuncCall

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright  hubert depesz lubaczewski, all rights reserved.

This program is distributed under the (Revised) BSD License.
