=head1 NAME

Pg::SQL::PrettyPrinter::Node::XmlExpr - Class representing xmlelement

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Not to be used directly.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

Aside from functions listed below, it inherits functions from
L<Pg::SQL::PrettyPrinter::Node>.

=head2 new

Makes object, first using parent's constructur, and then "unpacks" it's elements.

=head2 as_text

Fetches textual representation, without formatting, from appropriate
C<*_as_text> method.

=head2 pretty_print

Fetches pretty printed representation, from appropriate C<*_pretty_print>
method.

=head2 element_as_text

Provides text generation for xmlelement expressions.

=head2 element_pretty_print

Provides pretty printed text generation for xmlelement expressions.

=head2 concat_as_text

Provides text generation for xmlconcat expressions.

=head2 concat_pretty_print

Provides pretty printed text generation for xmlconcat expressions.

=head2 forest_as_text

Provides text generation for xmlforest expressions.

=head2 forest_pretty_print

Provides pretty printed text generation for xmlforest expressions.

=head2 parse_as_text

Provides text generation for xmlparse expressions.

=head2 parse_pretty_print

Provides pretty printed text generation for xmlparse expressions.

=head2 pi_as_text

Provides text generation for xmlpi expressions.

=head2 pi_pretty_print

Provides pretty printed text generation for xmlpi expressions.

=head2 root_as_text

Provides text generation for xmlroot expressions.

=head2 root_pretty_print

Provides pretty printed text generation for xmlroot expressions.

=head2 isdocument_as_text

Provides text generation for C<... IS DOCUMENT> predicate.

=head2 isdocument_pretty_print

Provides pretty printed text generation for C<... IS DOCUMENT> predicate.

=head1 AUTHOR

hubert depesz lubaczewski, C<< <depesz at depesz.com> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<depesz at depesz.com>.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Pg::SQL::PrettyPrinter::Node::XmlExpr

