=head1 NAME

HTML::HTML5::DOM::HTMLScriptElement - implementation of the HTMLScriptElement interface of the HTML DOM

=head1 DESCRIPTION

HTML::HTML5::DOM::HTMLScriptElement is an implementation of the HTMLScriptElement interface of the HTML DOM. See L<HTML::HTML5::DOM> for a list of the conventions that have been used when translating the DOM to Perl.

=head2 HTML Elements

This class applies to the following HTML elements.

=over

=item * C<< {http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml}script >>

=back

=head2 Inheritance

HTML::HTML5::DOM::HTMLScriptElement inherits methods from the following Perl classes.

=over

=item * L<HTML::HTML5::DOM::HTMLElement>

=item * L<XML::LibXML::Augment::Element>

=item * L<XML::LibXML::Augment::Node>

=item * L<XML::LibXML::Element>

=item * L<XML::LibXML::Node>

=item * L<XML::LibXML::QuerySelector>

=item * L<HTML::HTML5::DOMutil::FancyISA>

=back

=head2 Additional Methods

As well as its inherited methods, this class provides the following methods.

=over

=item * C<< async >>

Called with no arguments, is a shortcut for C<< $elem->hasAttribute("async") >>. If called with a true argument, will C<setAttribute>; if called with a false argument will C<removeAttribute>.

=item * C<< charset >>

Called with no arguments, is a shortcut for C<< $elem->getAttribute("charset") >>. Called with a defined argument, acts as C<setAttribute>. Called with undef as an argument, acts as C<removeAttribute>.

=item * C<< defer >>

Called with no arguments, is a shortcut for C<< $elem->hasAttribute("defer") >>. If called with a true argument, will C<setAttribute>; if called with a false argument will C<removeAttribute>.

=item * C<< src >>

Called with no arguments, is a shortcut for C<< $elem->getAttribute("src") >> but as a blessed L<URI> object. Called with a defined argument, acts as C<setAttribute>. Called with undef as an argument, acts as C<removeAttribute>.

=item * C<< text >>

Called with no arguments, acts as an alias for C<< $elem->textContent >>. Called with an arguments, sets the content for the element. Any existing content will be overwritten. If multiple arguments are provided, they'll be joined using "\n".

=item * C<< type >>

Called with no arguments, is a shortcut for C<< $elem->getAttribute("type") >>. Called with a defined argument, acts as C<setAttribute>. Called with undef as an argument, acts as C<removeAttribute>.

=back

=head1 BUGS

L<http://rt.cpan.org/Dist/Display.html?Queue=HTML-HTML5-DOM>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<HTML::HTML5::DOM>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Toby Inkster E<lt>tobyink@cpan.orgE<gt>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

This software is copyright (c) 2012, 2014 by Toby Inkster.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES

THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.



