=head1 NAME

HTML::HTML5::DOM::HTMLFormControlsCollection - implementation of the HTMLFormControlsCollection interface of the HTML DOM

=head1 DESCRIPTION

HTML::HTML5::DOM::HTMLFormControlsCollection is an implementation of the HTMLFormControlsCollection interface of the HTML DOM. See L<HTML::HTML5::DOM> for a list of the conventions that have been used when translating the DOM to Perl.

=head2 HTML Elements

This class applies to the following HTML elements.

=over

=back

=head2 Inheritance

HTML::HTML5::DOM::HTMLFormControlsCollection inherits methods from the following Perl classes.

=over

=item * L<HTML::HTML5::DOM::HTMLCollection>

=item * L<XML::LibXML::NodeList>

=item * L<HTML::HTML5::DOMutil::FancyISA>

=back

=head2 Additional Methods

As well as its inherited methods, this class provides the following methods.

=over

=item * C<< namedItem >>

Given a name, returns a list of nodes of elements where the @id or @name attribute matches that name. In scalar context this can return a single element if there's only one match, or a HTML::HTML5::DOM::RadioNodeList if there is more than one - this is a kinda annoying feature, but it is required for DOM compliance. Best to just call it in list context.

=item * C<< p5_wwwFormPairs >>

Returns a list of C<< [$name => $value] >> tuples for the elements on the list.

=item * C<< p5_wwwFormUrlencoded >>

Returns a form-encoded (C<< foo=bar&quux=xyzzy >>) string for the elements on the list.

=back

=head1 BUGS

L<http://rt.cpan.org/Dist/Display.html?Queue=HTML-HTML5-DOM>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<HTML::HTML5::DOM>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Toby Inkster E<lt>tobyink@cpan.orgE<gt>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

This software is copyright (c) 2012, 2014 by Toby Inkster.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES

THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.



