=head1 NAME

HTML::HTML5::DOM::ReleaseNotes - not quite a change log

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These release notes will not be updated for every release (see minor) but
are intended to provide important news, announce major new features, etc.
For a full change log, see the "Changes" file included in the distribution.

=head1 NEWS

=head2 HTML::HTML5::DOM 0.002

June 2014.

All methods that returned a L<Web::Magic> object (such as
HTMLFormElement's C<submit> method) now return an L<HTTP::Request>
object instead.

=head2 HTML::HTML5::DOM 0.001

July 2012.

HTML::HTML5::DOM is the culmination of an idea I've been working on in some
form or another for about six months. The idea is to build an HTML DOM layer
on top of L<XML::LibXML>.

XML::LibXML is not really designed to be extensible in this way, so to start
with I needed to write L<XML::LibXML::Augment>, a module to assist in
subclassing XML::LibXML's node classes.

With that in place I was free to start implementing the HTML5 DOM. Version
0.001 is a relatively modest proof of concept. There are still a number of
methods that are only partially implemented. Many more have not even been
attempted yet. But it's my hope that eventually the whole HTML5 DOM will be
covered.

=head3 Major Features Planned

Plans can change.

=over

=item *

Lots of methods marked "@@TODO" will be implemented.

=item *

W3C RDFa API.

=item *

W3C Microdata API.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

"Changes", L<HTML::HTML5::DOM>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Toby Inkster E<lt>tobyink@cpan.orgE<gt>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

This software is copyright (c) 2012, 2014 by Toby Inkster.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES

THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

