=pod

=head1 NAME

Simulation::DiscreteEvent::Cookbook - Simulation::DiscreteEvent Cookbook

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Purpose of Simulation::DiscreteEvent module is to simplify process of writing
models, collecting and processing statistics about model behavior. This
document provides some examples that should help you to start using
Simulation::DiscreteEvent.

I assume here that you familiar with basics of queueing theory and
discrete-event simulation.

=head1 RECIPES

=head2 L<Simulation::DiscreteEvent::Cookbook::MM10>

This recipe contains description of using library for modelling M/M/1/0 queue.

=head2 L<Simulation::DiscreteEvent::Cookbook::Callcenter>

This describes modelling of call center, and using
L<Simulation::DiscreteEvent::NumericState> and
L<Simulation::DiscreteEvent::Recorder> for collecting statistics.

=head1 AUTHOR

Pavel Shaydo, C<< <zwon at cpan.org> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-simulation-discreteevent at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Simulation-DiscreteEvent>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Simulation::DiscreteEvent>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2010 Pavel Shaydo.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.


=cut


