=head1 NAME

Crypt::NSS::X509::CRL - NSS CRL

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use 5.10.1;
  use Perl6::Slurp;

  use Crypt::NSS::X509;

  my $crl = Crypt::NSS::X509::Certificate->new(slurp('derfile'));
  my $cert = Crypt::NSS::X509::Certificate->new_from_der(slurp('derfile'));

  my $crlvalid = $crl->verify($cert);   
  my @revokedserials = map { $_->serial } $crl->entries;

=head1 ABSTRACT

Perl interface for the certificate revocation list parts of the NSS API.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class gives access to some of the CRL handling functions of NSS.
Note that this code is more unstable than the other classes and probably
will change.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 CONSTRUCTORS

=over 4

=item new_from_der ( DERSTRING ) 

Creates a new NSS::CRL object from the provided der-encoded
certificate string. 

=item new_from_pem ( PEMSTRING ) 

Creates a new NSS::CRL object from the provided pem-encoded
certificate. 

=back 

=head2 ACCESSORS & VERIFICATION FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item issuer 

Returns the CRL issuer as a string.

=item version

Returns the CRL version

=item find_issuer ( [ time ] ) 

Returns the NSS::Certificate object, where the subject matches
the CRL issuer. Certificate has to be in NSS database, otherwise
it will not be found.

=item verify ( cert, [time] )

Check the signature of the CRL against the NSS::Certificate cert.
Returns true on success, false otherwise.

=item verify_db( [time] )

Check the signature of the CRL at the provided time (now if no time 
provided). Tries to find a matching issuer certificate in the NSS
db.

=item entries

Returns the CRL entries as an array of hash-references.

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Johanna Amann, E<lt>johanna@icir.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Johanna Amann

This Library Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.

The library contains source code of the Mozilla Network Security Services; for
NSS license information please see http://www.mozilla.org/projects/security/pki/
nss/.

=cut

