## no critic: TestingAndDebugging::RequireUseStrict
# PODNAME: TableDef

# AUTHORITY
# DATE
our $DIST = 'TableDef'; # DIST
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Table data definition

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

TableDef - Table data definition

=head1 SPECIFICATION VERSION

 1

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 1.0.9 of TableDef (from Perl distribution TableDef), released on 2023-05-24.

=head1 ABSTRACT

This document describes TableDef, a way to define table data.

=head1 SPECIFICATION

In this document, hashes are written in JSON or pseudo-JSON (e.g. contains
ellipsis C<...> or JavaScript-style comments C<// ...>).

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL "NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

A TableDef spec is written in L<DefHash>. It can be used to describe the
structure of a relational database table, a CSV file, or an array of hashes.
Tools can be written to convert a TableDef hash to SQL's CREATE TABLE statement,
or to utilize information in the TableDef hash to format an HTML table, to view
a DB grid on the web browser, etc.

=head2 Properties

=head3 summary => str

From DefHash. Table summary.

=head3 description => str

From DefHash. Table longer description.

=head3 tags => array

From DefHash.

=head3 fields => hash

A hash, where the keys are field names and the values field specification. See
L</"FIELD SPECIFICATION">.

=head3 pk => str | array

Specify the primary key for the table. Either a string containing a single field
name, or an array of field names (for multi-field key).

=head1 FIELD SPECIFICATION

A L<DefHash>.

=head2 Properties

=head3 schema* => str | array

L<Sah> schema. This property is required.

=head3 summary => str

From DefHash. Field summary.

=head3 description => str

From DefHash. Field longer description.

=head3 tags => array

From DefHash.

=head3 pos => int

Specify the order of field. Must start from 0 and be contiguous.

=head3 req => bool (default: 0)

Whether this field is mandatory to be present. If 0, then function can choose to
omit the field.

=head3 sortable => bool (default: 1)

Specify whether this field can be sorted.

=head3 filterable => bool (default: 1)

Specify whether this field can be used as a filter.

=head3 unique => bool

Specify whether this field must contain unique values.

=head3 include_by_default => bool (default: 1)

This specifies that this field should be shown or included on "default view".
What default view is will depend on the context or implementation. Usually you
can set this to 0 if the field content is too long or wide. For example, in Perl
module L<Perinci::Sub::Gen::AccessTable>, if you give C<< detail => 1 >> to the
generated function, it will include all fields except fields that has this
property set to 0. To include such fields, you'll need to explicitly issue C<<
with.FIELDNAME => 1 >>.

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/TableDef>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-TableDef>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<DefHash>

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTING


To contribute, you can send patches by email/via RT, or send pull requests on
GitHub.

Most of the time, you don't need to build the distribution yourself. You can
simply modify the code, then test via:

 % prove -l

If you want to build the distribution (e.g. to try to install it locally on your
system), you can install L<Dist::Zilla>,
L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>,
L<Pod::Weaver::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>, and sometimes one or two other
Dist::Zilla- and/or Pod::Weaver plugins. Any additional steps required beyond
that are considered a bug and can be reported to me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2023, 2016, 2015, 2014 by perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=TableDef>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
