=head1 NAME

Binary mod_perl distributions

=head1 Description

This document includes links to various binary mod_perl distributions.

If you know about a distribution that isn't listed here, please tell
us (by announcing it at the L<mod_perl list|maillist::modperl>).

See also L<the source distributions|download::source> and the
L<bundles|download::bundles>.

=head1 How to get pre-compiled mod_perl

=head2 Win32 mod_perl 1.0

Win32 mod_perl Binaries (made by Randy Kobes) -
ftp://theoryx5.uwinnipeg.ca/pub/other/. Grab the perl-win32-bin.exe
self-extracting file. There's accompanying readme files with more details
on the particular versions of packages included. These all include Perl
and some common modules, so are largish.

For more information please read the L<Win32
Documentation|docs::1.0::os::win32::index>.

=head2 Win32 mod_perl 2.0 (BETA)

An experimental mod_perl-2.0 win32 binary package is available at
ftp://theoryx5.uwinnipeg.ca/pub/other/Apache2.tar.gz for those Win32
users who want a preview of things to come.

This archive will unpack into an "Apache2" directory, underneath which
is a "blib" subdirectory containing the necessary perl files. These
are included when starting Apache by a modperl directive found near
the end of I<conf/httpd.conf>, where a sample "Hello World" modperl
handler is also found. Some editing of I<httpd.conf> will be necessary
if this package is installed in a location other than
I<"\Apache2">. 

The package was compiled with the recent cvs sources, using
VC++ 6 and an ActivePerl based on perl-5.6.1. The F<mod_perl.so>
library in the Apache I<modules/> directory will most probably not
work with other Apache-2 binary packages.

Being under development, there are most likely bugs present.
For questions/problems on Apache-2, see the
docs at http://httpd.apache.org/docs-2.0/, and for modperl-2, see the
information on L<subscribing to the "dev" mailing list|maillist::dev>.

Also available at ftp://theoryx5.uwinnipeg.ca/pub/other/
is a package F<perl-5.8-win32-bin.tar.gz> containing
a binary distribution of perl-5.8/apache-2/mod_perl-2, also
compiled with recent cvs sources. This will unpack into
two directories - I<Perl> and I<Apache2> - as well as an
F<INSTALL.txt> file containing installation instructions.

=head2 Win32 Active Perl

Win32 ActivePerl mod_perl ppms - suitable for builds 6xx.  You can install
this by, within the ppm shell, setting the repository to
I<http://theoryx5.uwinnipeg.ca/cgi-bin/ppmserver?urn:/PPMServer> and
typing C<install mod_perl> (or C<install mod_perl-eapi> if you're
running a mod_ssl-enabled Apache). This will also run a post-install 
script to
install the required mod_perl.so to your Apache modules/ directory - if this
does not work, grab the F<mod_perl.tar.gz> file under
http://theoryx5.uwinnipeg.ca/ppmpackages/x86/ and extract
F<mod_perl.so> from there. This
mod_perl package is built against the current stable Apache release.
Some ppms of other Apache modules are also available
in this repository.

Also available in this repository is a mod_perl-2 ppm package,
which you can install within the ppm shell as C<install mod_perl-2>.

=head2 RedHat Linux

Static mod_perl and libapreq (Apache::Request) RPMs and SRPMs (made by
David Harris ) http://www.davideous.com/modperlrpm/distrib/. Mirrored at
http://perl.apache.org/rpm/.

=head2 RedHat Linux (including php3)

i386 RPMs + SRPM (RedHat) of Apache with mod_perl and php3 built
staticaly. (made by Vladimir Ivaschenko)
http://www.hazard.maks.net/apache/

=head2 other OS

OS vendors may supply their own pre-compiled version of mod_perl.
Refer to your OS vendor to figure out if they provide a binary version
of mod_perl.

=cut
