=head1 NAME

Inline::SLang::Types - Support for S-Lang types in Perl

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Inline SLang => Config => BIND_SLFUNCS => [ "vmessage" ];
  use Inline SLang;
  use Math::Complex;

  # the S-Lang Complex_Type variable is automatically converted
  # to a Math::Complex object in Perl.
  #
  my $val = makecplx();
  print "Perl has been sent $val\n";

  # the multiplication is done using Math::Complex objects and
  # the result then converted to a S-Lang Complex_Type variable,
  # since vmessage is a S-Lang function [the %S means convert
  # the variable to its string representation].
  #
  vmessage( "S-Lang has been sent %S", $val * cplx(0,1) );

  my $type = typecplx($val);
  print "And the S-Lang datatype is $type\n";
  print "        Perl object        " .  $type->typeof . "\n";

  __END__
  __SLang__

  define makecplx() { return 3 + 4i; }
  define typecplx(cval) { return typeof(cval); }

The output of this code - which can be found in the source-code
distribution as F<examples/types.pl> - is:

  Perl has been sent 3+4i
  S-Lang has been sent (-4 + 3i)
  And the S-Lang datatype is Complex_Type
          Perl object        DataType_Type

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The aim of the type-handling in C<Inline::SLang>
is to allow a user to program "naturally" in Perl
and S-Lang - i.e. to take advantage of the strengths
of each language - 
and so native data types are used wherever
possible.
However, Perl objects (classes defined in this
module) are used when necessary
- for some I<poorly defined> definition of necessary - to preserve type
information.

As an example, consider swapping a complex
number between S-Lang and Perl. In S-Lang it would be represented
as a C<Complex_Type> and in Perl we choose to use a
C<Math::Complex> object. Something simple - such as
an array reference containing two elements - could have
been used, but then we would not be able to convert it
back into a C<Complex_Type> variable in S-Lang (well, not
without telling the computer this is what we wanted).

Version 0.20 of the module added support for the
L<the Perl Data Language (ie PDL)|PDL::Intro>.

=head2 Supported S-Lang Data Types

The following S-Lang types may be returned from a S-Lang function to
Perl. Note that the list does I<not> include all 
synonyms for a type, although they are recognised; 
for instance the C<Int_Type> is accepted but converted to
C<Integer_Type>.

See L<the "DATATYPE CLASSES" section below|/"DATATYPE CLASSES">
for further details.

=over 4

=item *

NULL

Converted to a Perl undef.

=item *

[Char|UChar|Short|UShort|Integer|UInteger|Long|ULong]_Type

Converted to a Perl integer. The unsigned types are
converted as unsigned values, whatever difference that
may make.

=item *

[Float|Double]_Type

Converted to a Perl floating-point number.

=item *

Complex_Type

Converted to a Perl C<Math::Complex> object.

=item *

String_Type

Converted to a perl string.

=item *

Array_Type

Converted to one of: a Perl array reference,
a Perl C<Array_Type> object, or a I<piddle>.

=item *

Assoc_Type

Converted to a Perl C<Assoc_Type> object.

=item *

Struct_Type and "named" structures

Struct_Type variables are converted to a
Perl C<Struct_Type> object, whilst "named" structures
are converted to objects with the same name
as the S-Lang struct name.

=item *

DataType_Type

Converted to a Perl C<DataType_Type> object.

=item *

Other S-Lang types are converted to a Perl class
that matches the name of the S-Lang datatype. They are then
treated in Perl as I<opaque> objects, in that
you can pass them back to S-Lang and let it
access their contents but you can not do anything
else with them in Perl.

=back

=head2 Supported Perl Data Types

The following data types may be passed from Perl into S-Lang. Any
other type results in the Perl interpreter issuing a C<croak>;
we could create an I<opaque> datatype to store such values
- much as we do when we come across a S-Lang datatype that we
don't recognise - but this would only be useful if we also
allow Perl to be embedded into S-Lang.

See L<the "DATATYPE CLASSES" section below|/"DATATYPE CLASSES">
for further details.

=over 4

=item *

undef

Converted to C<NULL> (i.e. S-Lang's C<Null_Type> datatype).

=item *

Integer

Converted to S-Lang's C<Integer_Type>.

=item *

Floating Point

Converted to S-Lang's C<Double_Type>.

=item *

C<Math::Complex>

Converted to S-Lang's C<Complex_Type>.

=item *

String

Converted to S-Lang's C<String_Type>.

=item *

Array reference

Converted to a S-Lang array with (hopefully)
the correct datatype and dimensionality.

=item *

Perl C<Array_Type> object

Converted to a S-Lang array with datatype
and dimensionality matching that of the Perl
object.

=item *

Piddles

Will be be converted to a S-Lang array with datatype
and dimensionality matching that of the Perl
object.

=item *

Hash reference

Converted to S-Lang's C<Assoc_Type [Any_Type]>.

=item *

Perl C<Assoc_Type> object.

Converted to S-Lang's C<Assoc_Type> with
the datatype of the array being determined by the
contents of the object.

=item *

Perl C<Struct_Type> and derived objects.

Converted to the matching S-Lang type
(C<Struct_Type> or the "named" struct).

=item *

Perl C<DataType_Type> object.

Converted to S-Lang's C<DataType_Type>.

=item *

"Opaque" objects

S-Lang data types that are handled as so-called "opaque"
variables are converted back into the correct S-Lang
variable type.

=back

=head1 DATATYPE CLASSES

Objects are used to represent those S-Lang data types for 
which there is no corresponding Perl data type:
for complex numbers we use the L<Math::Complex|Math::Complex> 
module which is distributed with Perl;
arrays can be handled in a variety of ways - as a perl array
reference, an C<Array_Type> object, or a piddle
(see the documentation for the L<Perl Data Language|PDL::Intro>);
and for other types we use a class specific to
C<Inline::SLang>.

=over 2

=item * 

Complex numbers

Complex numbers are represented as C<Complex_Type> in 
S-Lang and as a
L<Math::Complex|Math::Complex> object in Perl. See the
L<Math::Complex|Math::Complex> documentation for
information on how to use this class.

=item *

Struct_Type and "named" structs

S-Lang structures - variables with a type of C<Struct_Type> -
are represented using
C<Struct_Type> objects in Perl.
Named structs - ie those created via a C<typedef struct {} XXX> call -
are represented using 
C<XXX> objects in Perl; these objects are
sub-classes of the C<Struct_Type> class.
The objects behave similarly to a hash reference, except that
you can not add or delete keys, the order of
the keys is fixed to match that of the structure,
and there are a number
of method calls that match the S-Lang language.

See L<Inline::SLang::Struct> for
more information.

=item *

Associative arrays

S-Lang associative arrays (C<Assoc_Type>) are represented
in Perl as C<Assoc_Type> objects. These objects behave just
as hash references do but have additional methods to
match the S-Lang language.

See L<Inline::SLang::Assoc> for
more information.

=item *

Arrays

Support for S-Lang arrays (C<Array_Type>) comes in three "flavours":

=over 2

=item 1

As a Perl array reference.

=item 2

As a piddle (if you are using the L<Perl Data Language|PDL::Intro>).

=item 3

As a Perl C<Array_Type> object.

It is expected that this object will I<rarely> be used,
at least directly.

=back

See L<Inline::SLang::Array> for
more information.

=item *

S-Lang data type.

S-Lang C<Datatype_Type> values are represented using
Perl C<DataType_Type> objects, which are described
below.

=item *

Other types.

A number of S-Lang types do not map to an obvious Perl
type. For these types, Inline::SLang creates
an object of class C<< <type> >>,
where C<< <type> >> is the name of the S-lang datatype
(i.e. the output of S-Lang's C<typeof> function).
Examples are the C<Ref_Type> and C<Any_Type> S-Lang variable types.

The objects are treated as "opaque" containers; you can store
them and send them back to S-Lang but there's essentially
nothing else you can do with them directly in Perl.

This currently I<includes> the
filehandle types C<File_Ptr_Type> and
C<File_FD_Type> since it looks like the Perl I/O
system is quite scary "under the hood" in v 5.8.0!

=back

=head1 PERL OBJECTS

Each class provides a number of methods.
These methods are not exported into the calling packages
namespace, so they can I<only> be accessed using the
"object-oriented" form, i.e.

  $obj->foo()

Note that the C<new()> method is not defined for
some classes, which means you can only create them
by calling a S-Lang function.

=head2 Common methods

All classes provide the following methods:

=over 2

=item *

typeof()

Returns a C<DataType_Type> object which contains the
the S-Lang datatype of the object. This object will
return the name of the datatype when converted to a string.

=item *

stringify()

The "print" method for the objects has been 
over-loaded to use the C<stringify()> method:
for most - probably all - types it will return the
datatype name.

=item *

is_struct_type()

Returns a 1 if the object represents a S-Lang structure
- including "named" structures created via a C<typedef> - and
0 otherwise.

=back

=head2 Array_Type Objects

See L<Inline::SLang::Array|Inline::SLang::Array>.

=head2 Assoc_Type Objects

See L<Inline::SLang::Assoc|Inline::SLang::Assoc>.

=head2 Struct_Type Objects

See L<Inline::SLang::Struct|Inline::SLang::Struct>.

=head2 DataType_Type Objects

Although you can use the C<new()> constructor described
below to create a C<DataType_Type> variable, it is
easier just to call the given type as a function.
If you have specified C<!types> as a value in
the C<EXPORT> configuration option (see
L<Inline::SLang::Config> for more details) then
you can just say:

  my $var = Integer_Type();

otherwise you have to include the package name, as in
the following

  my $var = Inline::SLang::Integer_Type();

Note that even though the functions take no arguments
you have to supply the C<()> in order for Perl to
recognise it as a function.
The return value (C<$var> here) can be used just
as the output of C<< DataType_Type->new() >> can.

It is possible to use the names of type "synonyms" - such
as C<Int_Type()> and C<Float32_Type()> - although the
value they return is of the I<base> type and not the
synonym.

The class-specific methods are:

=over 2

=item new()

  $dtype = DataType_Type->new([$type]);

The C<new()> method accepts a string (C<$type>) 
containing the name of the S-Lang datatype (e.g.
"UChar_Type"). If no variable is supplied then
"DataType_Type" is assumed.
Synonyms of types (eg 'Int_Type' and 'Float32_Type')
are accepted but automatically converted to
the I<base> type name.
If you supply a name that does I<not>
map to a S-Lang datatype then the return value is
C<undef>.

In general you should probably be using the functional
form described abode - i.e. use C<Integer_Type()> - but
this constructor can be useful when the data type is
not known ahead of time.

=item stringify()

The name of the datatype represented by the
object is returned.

For instance

  $type = DataType_Type->new("Any_Type");
  print("And the type is '$type'\n");

outputs

  And the type is 'Any_Type'.

=back

The equality and inequality operators - namely
C<==>, C<eq>, C<ne>, and C<!=> - have been over-ridden to
work for variables containing C<DataType_Type> objects.
So you can say:

  my $val = some_function_call();
  print "Got a S-Lang array\n" if
    $val->typeof == Array_Type(); 

To see a list of all the possible datatypes
recognised by a particular program use the
C<INFO> option provided by L<the Inline module|Inline>,
as described in the
L<"What functions and namespaces have been bound to Perl?"|Inline::SLang::Config/"What functions and namespaces have been bound to Perl?">
section of Inline::SLang::Config.

=head2 Other objects - aka "opaque" variables

These objects are used to store S-Lang data types
for which there is no obvious - or perhaps easy - 
way to represent in Perl. Examples are the
C<Ref_Type> and C<Any_Type> S-Lang variable types.

The Perl objects can I<only> be created from S-Lang
(i.e. there are no C<new()> methods).
In fact, there is little that you can do with these
objects in Perl; if you want to access/change the
value referred to then you need to pass the object
back to S-Lang.

There are I<no> class-specific methods. This means that
there is no way of creating one of these objects
except from S-Lang (i.e. there is no object
constructor in Perl).

An example using S-Lang references - available
as F<examples/use_refs.pl> in the source code - is:

  use Inline 'SLang';

  my $ref = getfoo();
  print "\$ref is a " . ref($ref) . " object\n";
  print "And when printed as a string = $ref\n";
  printfoo($ref);
  changefoo($ref,"no it isn't");
  printfoo($ref);

  __END__
  __SLang__

  variable foo = "this is a string";
  define getfoo() { return &foo; }
  define printfoo(x) { () = printf("foo = [%s]\n", @x ); }
  define changefoo(x,y) { @x = y; }

The output of this script is:

  $ref is a Ref_Type object
  And when printed as a string = Ref_Type
  foo = [this is a string]
  foo = [no it isn't]

Note that to change the value pointed to by the reference
we had to send the variable back to S-Lang and do the
processing there.

For C<Any_Type> variables (this is also available
as F<examples/use_anytype.pl>):

  use Inline 'SLang';

  my $a0 = getfoo(0);
  my $a1 = getfoo(1);
  my $a2 = getfoo(2);
  print "\nIn Perl:\n";
  printf "typeof(foo[0]) = %s\n", $a0->typeof;
  printf "typeof(foo[1]) = %s\n", $a1->typeof;
  printf "typeof(foo[2]) = %s\n",
    defined($a2) ? $a2->typeof : "undef";

  __END__
  __SLang__

  variable foo = Any_Type [3];
  foo[0] = "a string";
  foo[1] = 23;

  define getfoo(x) { return foo[x]; }
  message( "In S-Lang:" );
  vmessage( "typeof(foo[0]) = %s", string(typeof(foo[0])) );
  vmessage( "typeof(foo[1]) = %s", string(typeof(foo[1])) );
  vmessage( "typeof(foo[2]) = %s", string(typeof(foo[2])) );

The output of this script is:

  In S-Lang:
  typeof(foo[0]) = Any_Type
  typeof(foo[1]) = Any_Type
  typeof(foo[2]) = Null_Type

  In Perl:
  typeof(foo[0]) = Any_Type
  typeof(foo[1]) = Any_Type
  typeof(foo[2]) = undef

Note that the C<Null_Type> value (in S-Lang) has been converted
into a Perl C<undef> value.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Inline::SLang::Array>, L<Inline::SLang::Assoc>, L<Inline::SLang::Struct>,
L<Inline::SLang>, L<Math::Complex>, L<PDL>, L<PDL::Intro>


