# Copyright (c) 2011-2021 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

=pod

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::ConfigFile - sample config file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Date::Manip is a highly configurable module.  Many of the options
can be set in a config file.  This document includes a sample config
file.

The config file consists of three sections.  The first section is
config variables.  This is described more fully in the L<Date::Manip::Config>
document.

The second section is the holiday definition section.  The third section
is the event definition section.  These are both described more fully
in the L<Date::Manip::Holidays> document.

=head1 SAMPLE CONFIG FILE

The sample config file below works for newer versions of Date::Manip.
Some of the config variables may change, or be deprecated, and some
may not work with earlier versions of Date::Manip, so it is strongly
suggested that you check out the documentation for the version of
Date::Manip you are using to confirm any of the config variables you
want to include.

  ################################
  # CONFIG VARIABLES
  ################################
  # See Date::Manip::Config man page for a description of all
  # config variables.

  # To include configuration information from additional
  # config files:

  ConfigFile              = /path/to/another/config/file
  ConfigFile              = /path/to/another/config/file2

  # For handling other languages

  Language                = English
  DateFormat              = US
  Encoding                =

  # Set the current timezone:

  SetDate                 = now,America/New_York

  # Set the work work

  WorkWeekBeg             = 1
  WorkWeekEnd             = 5
  WorkDay24Hr             = 0
  WorkDayBeg              = 08:00
  WorkDayEnd              = 17:00
  TomorrowFirst           = 1

  # Misc. variables

  YYtoYYYY                = 89
  FirstDay                = 1
  Jan1Week1               = 0
  Printable               = 0
  DefaultTime             = midnight
  RecurRange              = none

  ################################
  # HOLIDAYS
  ################################
  # See the Date::Manip::Holidays man page for a description of
  # this section.
  *HOLIDAYS

  # FEDERAL HOLIDAYS
  ##################

  # You can express New Year's Day as the actual day (Jan 1)
  # or the observed day (Jan 1 or the nearest week day).
  # You can't include BOTH because once a day is marked as
  # a holiday, a second definition will treat it the same
  # as a weekend and choose another day to assign the holiday
  # to (so there would be two days designated as New Years).

  # Jan 1                         = New Year's Day
  1*1:0:1:0:0:0*DWD               = New Year's Day (observed)

  # Two different ways to defined MLK day

  third Monday in Jan             = Martin Luther King Jr.'s Birthday
  # 1*1:3:1:0:0:0                 = Martin Luther King Jr.'s Birthday

  # Observed by federal employees in Washington D.C.

  # Jan 20                        = Inauguration day
  third Monday in Feb             = Washington's Birthday
  last Monday in May              = Memorial Day
  1st Monday in Sep               = Labor Day
  second Monday in Oct            = Columbus Day

  # Jul 4                         = Independence Day
  1*7:0:4:0:0:0*DWD               = Independence Day

  # 11/11                         = Veterans Day
  1*11:0:11:0:0:0*DWD             = Veteran's Day

  # To define both Thanksgiving and the day after, use the
  # following two lines:

  fourth Thu in Nov               = Thanksgiving
  1*11:4:4:0:0:0*FD1              = Day after Thanksgiving

  # Dec 25                        = Christmas
  1*12:0:25:0:0:0*DWD             = Christmas

  # SAMPLE HOLIDAYS
  ##################

  # You can define a one-time-only holiday by specifying
  # the day and year.

  6/2/1999                        = A special test holiday for 1999

  ################################
  # EVENTS
  ################################
  # See the Date::Manip::Holidays man page for a description of
  # this section.
  *EVENTS

  2000-02-01               = Event01
  2000-02-01-12:00:00      = Event02
  02-01                    = Event03
  02-01 12:00:00           = Event04
  1*2:0:3:13:00:00         = Event05

  2000-02-05 10:00:00 ; 2000-02-05 10:59:59 = Event06
  2000-02-05          ; 2000-02-06          = Event07
  02-05               ; 02-06               = Event08

  2000-02-07 10:00:00 ; 0:0:0:0:3:0:0       = Event09
  02-07 10:00:00      ; 0:0:0:0:4:0:0       = Event10
  1*2:0:7:10:00:00    ; 0:0:0:0:5:0:0       = Event11

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Date::Manip>        - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
