# PODNAME: Data::BytesLocker
# ABSTRACT: Guarded storage for sensitive data

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Data::BytesLocker - Guarded storage for sensitive data

=head1 VERSION

version 1.0.8.0

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Crypt::NaCl::Sodium qw(:utils);

    # lock by default
    $Data::BytesLocker::DEFAULT_LOCKED = 1;

    # some sensitive data read from external sources, eg. database
    my $password = ...;

    my $password_locker = Data::BytesLocker->new($password, wipe => 1);

    # $password now is overwritten with null bytes
    $password =~ /^\0+$/ or die;

    # as requested locker is locked
    $password_locker->is_locked or die;

    # dies with: "Unlock BytesLocker object before accessing the data"
    print "password: ", $password_locker->bytes, "\n";

    # unlock the data
    $password_locker->unlock;

    # as requested locker is unlocked
    $password_locker->is_locked and die;

    # prints the password using overloaded stringification
    print "password: $password_locker\n";

    # Crypt::NaCl::Sodium functions and methods return binary data locked in Data::BytesLocker objects
    my $random_password = random_bytes( 32 );

    # we wanted locked by default
    $random_password->unlock;

    # helper function to convert into hexadecimal string
    print "random password: ", $random_password->to_hex, "\n";

    # clone the data into new object
    my $copy = $password_locker->clone;

    # nonce increment
    my $next_nonce = $nonce->increment;

    # add number
    my $next_nonce = $nonce->add( $step );

    # check if the data contains zero bits only
    $next_nonce->is_zero and print "back to square zero\n";

    # always lock the data once done using it
    $password_locker->lock;
    $random_password->lock;

    # wipe out the memory and destroy the object
    undef $password_locker;
    undef $random_password;
    undef $copy;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Heartbleed was a serious vulnerability in OpenSSL. The ability to read
past the end of a buffer is a serious bug, but what
made it even worse is the fact that secret data could be
disclosed by doing so.

In order to mitigate the impact of similar bugs, C<Data::BytesLocker> provides
heap allocation functions for storing sensitive data.

These are not general-purpose allocation functions. In particular, they
are slower than regular scalars, and they
require 3 or 4 extra pages of virtual memory (usually between 12-16kb extra
memory will be used).

The stored data is placed at the end of a page boundary,
immediately followed by a guard page. As a result, accessing
memory past the end of the region will immediately terminate the
application.

A canary is also placed right before the stored data.
Modification of this canary are detected when trying to free
the allocated region, and also cause the
application to immediately terminate.

An additional guard page is placed before this canary. In a
Heartbleed-like scenario, this guard page is likely to be read
before the actual data, and this access will cause the application
to terminate instead of leaking sensitive data.

The allocated region is filled with C<0xd0> bytes in order
to help catch bugs due to initialized data.

On operating systems supporting C<MAP_NOCORE> or C<MADV_DONTDUMP>,
the memory allocated this way will also not be part of core dumps and can help
avoid the data being swapped to disk.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

    my $locker = Data::BytesLocker->new($data, wipe => 1 );

Returns object that stores the input C<$data> in a protected memory location.

If the optional parameter C<wipe> is given and is true, then the input C<$data>
variable will be overwritten with null bytes.

Returned C<$locker> object will contain the data that cannot be modified and if
the object is locked it cannot be accessed as well.

C<Data::BytesLocker> object when used in string context return the protected
data.  See L</OVERLOADED OPERATIONS> for more details.

=head2 clone

    my $cloned = $locker->clone;

Returns new data object which will contain the copied data from C<$locker>.

=head2 lock

    $locker->lock();

When called makes the data stored inaccessible. It cannot be read or written,
but the data are preserved.

=head2 unlock

    $locker->unlock();

When called makes the data stored accessible for read access only.

=head2 is_locked

    if ( $locker->is_locked ) {
        $locker->unlock;
    }

Returns true if the C<$locker> object is locked, false otherwise.

=head2 length

    my $data_length = $locker->length();

Returns the length of protected bytes.

=head2 to_hex

    my $hexencoded = $locker->to_hex();

Returns the protected data converted into a hexadecimal string.

B<NOTE:> the C<$locker> object must be unlocked.

Returns regular scalar.

=head2 bytes

    my $bytes = $locker->bytes();

Returns the protected data as regular scalar.

B<NOTE:> the C<$locker> object must be unlocked.

=head2 is_zero

    if ( $locker->is_zero ) {
        print "data contains zero bits only\n";
    }

Returns true if the C<$locker> object contains zero bits only.
Runs in constant-time for objects of the same length.

=head2 memcmp

    $locker->memcmp($bytes, $length ) or die "\$locker ne \$bytes for length: $length";

Compares strings in constant-time. Returns true if they match, false otherwise.

The argument C<$length> is optional if length of C<$bytes> is equal to the
length of the data stored in C<$locker>. Otherwise it is required and cannot
be greater then the length of the shorter of compared variables.

=head2 compare

    $nonce->compare( $number, $length ) == -1 and print "\$nonce < \$number for length: $length";

A constant-time version of L</memcmp>, useful to compare nonces and counters
in little-endian format, that plays well with L</increment>.

Returns C<-1> if C<$nonce> is lower then C<$number>, C<0> if C<$nonce> and
C<$number> are identical, or C<1> if C<$nonce> is greater then C<$number>.
Both C<$nonce> and C<$number> are assumed to be numbers encoded in little-endian format.

The argument C<$length> is optional if variables are of the same length. Otherwise it is
required and cannot be greater then the length of the shorter of compared variables.

=head2 increment

    my $next_nonce = $nonce->increment();

Increments an arbitrary long unsigned number. Method runs in constant-time
for a given length of locked data and considers it to be encoded in
little-endian format.

This method is meant to be used to increment nonces and counters.

Returns the incremented object.

=head2 add

    my $next_nonce = $nonce->add($number, $length);

Method computes C<($nonce + $number) mod 2 ^ (8 * $length)> in constant time for
a given length and returns the result of that computation.
Both C<$nonce> and C<$number> are assumed to be numbers encoded in little-endian format.

The argument C<$length> is optional if variables are of the same length. Otherwise it is
required and cannot be greater then the length of the shorter of compared variables.

This method is meant to be used to increment nonces and counters using specified
step.

=head1 OVERLOADED OPERATIONS

Only operations listed below are supported.

=head2 stringification

    print "Password: $locker\n";

Returns the protected data as regular scalar.

=head2 stringwise equality

    if ( $locker eq $expected ) {
        print "matches\n";
    }

    if ( $locker ne $expected ) {
        print "does not match\n";
    }

The C<eq> and C<ne> operations are overloaded and allow to compare the
C<$locker> object with variable of equal length.

=head2 boolean context

    if ( $locker ) {
        print "locker has some non-zero length data\n";
    }

    if ( ! $locker ) {
        print "locker has some zero length data\n";
    }

The C<bool> and C<!> operations are overloaded and allow to check if the
C<$locker> object contains the data at least one byte long.

=head2 concatenation

    my $kv = "password:". $locker;

The concatenation operator C<.> is overloaded and allows to create a new
C<Data::BytesLocker> object that is a result of joining the data together.

=head2 repetition

    my $tripled_data = $locker x 3;

The repetition operator C<x> is overloaded and allow to create a new
C<Data::BytesLocker> object that is a result of repeating the protected data
specified number of times.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item * L<Crypt::NaCl::Sodium>

=item * L<Securing memory allocations|http://doc.libsodium.org/helpers/memory_management.html>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Alex J. G. Burzyński <ajgb@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2015 by Alex J. G. Burzyński <ajgb@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
