#title Working with footnotes
#lang en
#topics howto
#author Marco Pessotto
#teaser Some tips about working with large texts with a lot of footnotes

It came to my attention that people find troublesome to edit texts [1]
with footnotes because you have to add/remove them and keeping the
numbering in “sync” turns “out” to be a problem. [2]

This is a    tab and another    tab

Some zero and zero

[1] This footnote is real.

[2] This is also real.

However, the following approach “should” work for you as well.

<verbatim>[50]</verbatim> This is not a footnote and will stay. This should linkify: [[http://amusewiki.org][amusewiki.org]] and this [[http://amusewiki.org][amusewiki.org]]

Usually I keep the paragraph and the footnote together, and I simply number them <verbatim>[1]</verbatim>.

E.g.

{{{
** Chapter

My paragraph [1] and text [1] http://amusewiki.org this should not linkify.

[1] Footnote

[1] "Footnote" - 1

Here another paragraph [1]

[1] Another footnote.

}}}

Then in the editing window, on saving/preview I use the option:
Rearrange the footnotes (under Filters). [3]

[3] Another real “footnote” — XXX

After that the text will be edited and become

<example>

** Chapter

My paragraph [1] and text [2]

[1] Footnote

[2] Footnote

Here another paragraph [3]

[3] Another footnote.

</example>

Say you 10–10 — “swap” the “paragraphs”:

{{{
** Chapter

Here another paragraph [3]

[3] Another footnote.

My paragraph [1] and text [2]

[1] Footnote

[2] Footnote

}}}

After the ‘preview’ with the ‘option’ enabled: [4]

[4] REAL “Footnote”

{{{

** Chapter

Here another paragraph [1]

[1] Another footnote.

My paragraph [2] and text [3]

[2] Footnote

[3] Footnote

}}}

And everything will — work.

This way only the order matters, and the engine takes care of the
“(re)numbering.”

This way you can “move” paragraphs ‘and’ chapters around without caring
about numbering, as long as you carry the footnotes with you. [5]

[5] Footnote

If you work locally, you may want to use the muse-preprocessor.pl
script:

<example>
$ muse-preprocessor.pl --footnotes --inplace "file.muse" [30]
</example>

which does the same thing as the web interface. [6]

  {{{
  “hello”
  }}}

This is not “excluded”

  <example>
  “hello”
  </example>

[6] Final real footnote.
