=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Html::FromMail::Default::HTMLifiers - convert data type to HTML

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item B<htmlifyHtml>(PAGE, MESSAGE, PART, ARGS)

THIS FUNCTION IS NOT PRESENT, for the following reason.  What should
happen here?  The message part/multipart contains an html message, but
that interferes with the HTML of the template.

One solution could be to strip the header, and the html and body tags.
However, what about style sheet info?  That may very well interfere
with the template's style sheet.  And consider erroneous HTML?

So, until some nice solution is presented, HTML will not be inlined.
As alternative, your production software may differentiate between
html messages and non-html messages.  Produce the page according to
the template, and then simply link to the produced HTML for the user.
However, I don't know whether that is smart....

=item B<htmlifyText>(PAGE, MESSAGE, PART, ARGS)

Convert plain text into HTML using HTML::FromText.  Configuration
can be supplied as show in the example.  The defaults are set to mode C<pre>
with C<urls>, C<email>, C<bold>, and C<underline>.

example: configuring text conversion

  my $f = HTML::FromMail->new
  ( settings =>
      { message        => { disposition => \&my_disposer }
      , HTML::FromText => { block_code  => 0 }
      }
  );

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of HTML-FromMail distribution version 0.12,
built on January 29, 2018. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2003-2018 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

