=head1 NAME

WWW::SVT::Play - extract information from SVT Play

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Swedish state public service television, Sveriges Television, has
created a popular "Play" service (i.e. on demand web based
streaming). But one thing was missing. An API! So we have to
scrape unfortunately. With this module, the otherwise good
service is completed.

You can fetch data, including stream URIs, for videos hosted on
SVT Play using the module L<WWW::SVT::Play::Video>.

=head1 AVAILABILITY AND BUG REPORTING

The latest released version of this module is available through
CPAN. It's encouraged to report bugs on github.com, but I will
also monitor the CPAN RT and (of course,) e-mail.

=head1 KNOWN BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

SVT recently announced that they are moving to using HDS (HTTP
Dynamic Streaming). I'm seeing a lot of content moving to this.
The module is still useful, but there are extra steps required
to view some content, not currently implemented by the module.
The L</SEE ALSO> section contains a URL to the announcement.

HDS is a Adobe technology aimed at Adobe Flash users, as such,
it isn't quite as available on Apple based platforms like iOS.
For this reason, I guess, SVT also support HLS (HTTP Live
Streaming). This is a much easier format to scrape/work with,
so I'm planning to add support for this in this module.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item * L<SVT Play|http://svtplay.se/>

=item * L<SVT announces move to HDS|http://blogg.svt.se/testbild/2012/09/ny-streamingteknik-for-svt-play/> (Swedish)

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2012, 2013 - Olof Johansson <olof@cpan.org>
All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

