=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Business::CAMT - ISO20022 Cash Management (CAMT) messages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $camt = Business::CAMT->new;
  my $data = $camt->read($file|$xml);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Use this module to manage CAMT messages, which are ISO20022 standard
"Cash Management" messages as produced in banking.  For instance,
CAMT.053 is produced by banks and consumed by accountancies, showing
transactions in bank-accounts.  See F<https://www.iso20022.org>.

At the moment, this module can be used to read and write the XML message
files.  It is intended to also support interpreting and construction
abstraction.  However, B<I need a sponsor> to make that happen.
Contact the author for support.  Please.

I would also like to include a CAMT.053 to MT-940 converter, v.v.
Please hire me.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Business::CAMT-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

Create a new CAMT processing object.

Reuse this object to avoid recompilation of the message reader.

 -Option       --Default
  big_numbers    false
  long_tagnames  false
  match_schema   'NEWER'

=over 2

=item big_numbers => BOOLEAN

Set to a true value when your accounts run into the billions.  This will
enable Math::BigFloat to be used, which is slower and memory hungry.

=item long_tagnames => BOOLEAN

The schemas are derived from an UML specifications which uses clear and
readible long names for relations and attributes.  But, someone with a
poor sense of optimization removed most of the vowels from these tags
while translating the UML into an XSD.  When set to C<true>, this option
will give you the nice long names in Perl.

=item match_schema => $rule

Sets the default $rule how to handle messages which have namespaces
which do not match the schemas contained in the module release.

See L<matchSchema()|Business::CAMT/"Helper methods"> for the available $rule values.  See the L<DETAILS>
section about the namespace versioning horrors.

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schemas>()

=back

=head2 Read and Write messages

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<create>($set, $version, $data)

=item $obj-E<gt>B<read>($file|$xml, %options)

Pass a $file name, an $xml document or an $xml node.  Returned is
a HASH blessed in class 'Business::CAMT::CAMT<nr>', for instance
C<Business::CAMT::CAMT053>.

 -Option      --Default
  match_schema  new(match_schema)

=over 2

=item match_schema => $rule

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<write>($file, $message, %options)

example: writing a message

  my $message = $camt->create('053.001', '02', $data);
  $camt->write('out.xml', $message);

=back

=head2 Helper methods

You would rarely (or never) need to use these methods in your programs: they support
the reader and writer function.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fullname2tagTable>()

Translates long and understandable names into (silly) abbreviated tags.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<knownVersions>( [$set] )

Returns a sorted LIST with all schema versions which are included in this
distribution.  When the $set is specified (like C<053.001>), then only
those are reported.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<matchSchema>($set, $version, %options)

Find the available schema version for the $set (like '053.001') to interpret
a message with $version (like '02').

 -Option--Default
  rule    new(match_schema)

=over 2

=item rule => 'EXACT'|'NEWER'|'NEWEST'|'ANY'|CODE

When C<EXACT>, only the precise version is acceptable.  C<NEWER> will
fall back to the closest newer version.  When no exact match, C<NEWEST>
returns the highest available version, but must be newer.  Most generous
is C<ANY>, which falls back to the newest available version even when
it is older than the message version.

You may also pass a CODE reference, which is called with the $set, the requested
schema, and a sorted ARRAY of available versions.  It must return one of the
available versions or C<undef> (no compatible version).

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schemaReader>($set, $version, $ns)

Produces a CODE which can be called with an XML message, to get it transformed
into a Perl data-structure.  In this case, the $set and $version have to be
known already; method L<read()|Business::CAMT/"Read and Write messages"> figures that out by itself.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schemaWriter>($set, $version, $ns)

=item $obj-E<gt>B<tag2fullnameTable>()

Returns a table which translates the (silly) abbreviations used in the
XML tags into readable names.  Good names make it easier to understand
the handling code and is less error-prone.

=back

=head1 DETAILS

In this chapter, you find some background information and implementation tips.

=head2 Examples

The release contains a C<examples/> directory.  In that directory, you with find
a C<show> script and some xml files.  Run the script with a file, to see what
this module has to offer.  For example:

  cd Business-CAMT-0.01/
  examples/show examples/danskeci.com/camt053_dk_example.xml /tmp/a.xml

The script (this module) auto-detects the CAMT type which is found in the XML
message.  Play with the script to see how changes affect the output.

=head2 Templates

In our GitHub repository, you find a C<templates/> directory which
contains a structural dump of each of the Perl data structure which is
produced (for L<read()|Business::CAMT/"Read and Write messages">) or consumed (for C<write>, to be implemented)
by this module.

Be sure you understand anonymous HASHes and ARRAYs in Perl well, when you
start playing.  Do not forget that code gets more readible when you use
practical reference variables.

On GitHub, you will also find a C<templates-long/> directory full of
examples.  This demonstrates what option L<new(long_tagnames)|Business::CAMT/"Constructors"> does: it
will make the Perl datastructures readible.

=head2 Implementation issues

=head3 XML namespaces

The idea behind XML namespaces to include schema versioning is
fundamentally flawed.  The CAMT files form no exception in broken XML
concept.  Of course, schema versions are backwards compatible, so why
not design your versioning with that in mind?

This module bends the namespace use to hide these design mistakes into
flexible code.  Without full knowledge about existing and future versions
of the schemas, there is a powerfull configuration setting with L<matchSchema()|Business::CAMT/"Helper methods">.
Please consider to contribute discovered issues to this module.

=head3 Tag abbreviations

XML is very verbose anyway, so it really does not help to abbreviate tags leaving
some vowels out.  This makes it harder to read messages and code.  It increases
the chance on stupid typos in the code.

=head3 No common types

Each schema is separate, although their type definitions are overlapping.  It is
not guaranteed that equal types will stay that way over time.  This may cause
instable code.  Probably, issues will not emerge because the schema files are
generated from a central UML model.

=head3 Missed chances on XML

The messages are designed with an UML tool, which means: limited to the features
of that tool and hindering the view on the quality of the schema.  This leads to
structures like:

  <Bal>
    <Tp>
      <CdOrPrtry>
         <Cd>OPBD</Cd>
      </CdOrPrtry>
    </Tp>
    <Amt Ccy="SEK">500000</Amt>
    <CdtDbtInd>CRDT</CdtDbtInd>
    <Dt>
      <Dt>2010-10-15</Dt>
    </Dt>
  </Bal>

In Perl, this leads to (C<long_tagnames> on)

  Balance => {
    Type => {
      CodeOrProperty => {
        Code => 'OPBD',
      }
    },
    Amount => {
      _ => '500000',
      Currency => 'SEK',
    },
    CreditDebitInd => 'CRDT',
    Date => {
      Date => '2010-10-15',
    },
  }

The XML schema, when B<designed> as XML schema, could have looked like

  <Credit Code="OPDB">
    <Amount Currency="SEK">500000</Amount>
    <Date>2010-10-15</Date>
  </Credit>

Also: use of substitutionGroups would have made messages so much
clearer and easier.

=encoding utf-8

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Business-CAMT distribution version 0.12,
built on November 27, 2024. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2024 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

