=head1 NAME

Text::AsciiTeX::Syntax - A description of the syntax accepted by Text::AsciiTeX

=head1 SYNTAX

=over

=item C<\frac{a}{b}>

A fraction of C<a> and C<b>.

=item C<a^{b}>

A superscript. One can also omit the braces. In this case the first character following C<^> will be superscripted.

=item C<a_{b}>

A subscript.  Works just like the superscript (well, not exactly of course).

=item C<\sqrt[n]{a}>

A C<n>-th root of C<a>, the argument C<[n]> is optional. Without it it produces the square root of C<a>.

=item C<\sum>

Expands to a sigma

=item C<\prod>

Expands to the product mark (pi).

=item C<\int>

Expands to the integral mark.

=item C<\oint>

A closed path integral.

=item C<\left(> , C<\right)>

Expands to braces which adept to the height of their content. Available left braces are: C<([{|> The correspondingright braces are:  C<)]}|>  All brace types can be opened by C<\left.>  or closed by <\right.>, producing a single right or left brace, respectively.

=item C<\leadsto>

Expands to an arrow (C<< ~> >>), May look ugly depending on your fonts.

=item C<\to>

Expands to an arrow (C<< -> >>).

=item C<\limit{x}>

Expands to a limit, i.e. C<< \limit{x \to 0} >>.

=item C<\overline{X}>

Draws a line above expression C<X>

=item C<\underline{X}>

Draws a line under expression C<X>

=item C<\lceil>

Left ceiling symbol

=item C<\rceil>

Right ceiling symbol

=item C<\lfloor>

Left floor symbol

=item C<\rfloor>

Right floor symbol

=item C<< \\ >>

Insert a line break.

=item C<\a>
       
Escapes the character C<a>. Useful for inserting characters like C<^>, and C<_> in your equation.

=item array environment
       
 \begin{array}[pos]{column alignments}
   a00 & a01 & ... a0n \\
   a10 & a11 & ... a1n \\
   ... & ... & ... ... \\
   am0 & am1 & ... amn
 \end{array}
       
Makes an array. The optional argument C<pos> sets  the  alignment  of  the
array to C<t> (top), C<b> (bottom) or C<c> (center). The column alignments consist of
one character per column, C<l> (left), C<c> (center), or C<r> (right). Currently asciiTeX
does  not support vertical or horizontal lines, e.g. the column-
alignment specification C<{|c|}> will lead to  errors.  Note, that the
string C<\begin{array}> must not contain spaces. Cells of the array may
contain formulas and sub-arrays.

=back


=head1 EXAMPLES

You can pass any of these examples to C<render> to see what it does.

 \frac{1}{1+x}

 \lfloorx\rfloor = x -\frac{1}{2} + \sum_{k=1}^{\infty}
 \frac{sin(2 Pi k x)}{pi k}

 \begin{array}{ccc}
 x_{11} & x_{12} & x_{13}\\
 x_{21} & x_{22} & x_{23}\\
 x_{31} & x_{32} & x_{33}
 \end{array}

 \left[
 \begin{array}{ccc}
 x_{11} & x_{12} & x_{13}\\
 x_{21} & x_{22} & x_{23}\\
 x_{31} & x_{32} & x_{33}
 \end{array}
 \right]

 \int_0^W \frac{np}{n+p}dx = \int_0^W \frac{n_0}{exp \left( 
 \frac{E_0(x-x_0)}{kT} \right)+exp \left( -\frac{E_0(x-x_0)}{kT}\right)}
 dx=\frac{n_0kT}{E_0} \left[ arctan \left( exp 
 \left[\frac{E_0(x-x_0)}{kT}\right]\right)\right]^{x=W}_{x=0}~ 
 \frac{n_0kT}{E_0} pi

 f(x) = \left{\begin{array}{lr} 
 \frac{1}{x+1} +12 & \-12<x<0\\
   & \\ 13-x & x<\-12, x>0
 \end{array}\right.

 a = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2} + 
 \frac{1}{\sqrt{2} + 
 \frac{1}{\sqrt{2} + 
 \frac{1}{\sqrt{2} + ...
 }}}}
 
=head1 AUTHOR
 
This document is a direct port from the documenation of asciiTeX program written by Bart Pieters. See L<http://asciitex.sourceforge.net/>.

=cut
