=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Test::WWW::Mechanize::Dancer - Wrapper to easily use Test::WWW::Mechanize with your Dancer apps

=head1 VERSION

version 0.0100

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use MyDancerApp;
    use Test::WWW::Mechanize::Dancer;

    # Get your standard Test::WWW::Mechanize object
    my $mech = Test::WWW::Mechanize::Dancer->new(
        # settings here if required
    )->mech;
    # Run standard Test::WWW::Mechanize tests
    $mech->get_ok('/');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a simple wrapper that lets you test your Dancer apps using
Test::WWW::Mechanize.

=head1 SETTINGS

=head2 appdir

Probably the main thing you will want to set, C<appdir> sets the base
directory for the app.  C<confdir>, C<views>, and C<public>, will be 
set to C<appdir>, C<appdir>/views, and C<appdir>/public
respectively if not set explicitly.

The C<appdir> defaults to the current working directory, which works
in most testing cases.

=head2 agent

Allows you to set the user agent of the Mechanizer.

=head2 confdir

Set the dancer confdir.  Will default to appdir if unspecified.

=head2 envdir

Allows you to set the directory where Dancer should look for the config files
for each environment.  Defaults to 'environments' under appdir.  Note if your
app uses $ENV{DANCER_ENVDIR} you should explicitly pass that value using this
option.

=head2 environment

Allows you to set the Dancer environment to run your app in.  Defaults to
'test'

=head2 mech_class

Allows you to override the class used to instantiate the user agent object.
Use this to invoke your own class with project-specific test-helper methods.
Defaults to 'Test::WWW::Mechanize::PSGI' - which your class should inherit
from.  Note, it is your responsibility to 'require' the class.

=head2 public

Set the public directory for your dancer app.  Defaults to C<appdir>/public

=head2 views

Set the views directory for your dancer app.  Defaults to C<appdir>/views

=head1 AUTHORS

=over 4

=item *

William Wolf <throughnothing@gmail.com>

=item *

Grant McLean <grantm@cpan.org>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2011 by William Wolf.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
