=head1 NAME

Journal::ImpactFactor - A list of updated scientiffic journal impact factor.

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.04

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Quick summary of what the module does.

    use Journal::ImpactFactor;

    # instantiate the journal list
    my $if = Journal::ImpactFactor->new();

    # search a journal by name
    my $result = $if->search_by_name("Animal");
    
    # search a journal by issn
    my $resul = $if->search_by_issn('0718-7106'); 
    
    # print the impact factor for the year 2010
    say $result->year_2010;
    ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides access to impact factor information of 1100 different scientific journals. You can access data from 2008 to 2013/2014. All data compiled here is from www.citefactor.org 

=head2 Methods

=head3 search by name

This method returns a JournalEntry object (see methods below).

    my $result = $if->search_by_name("name");

=head3 search by issn

This method sreturns a JournalEntry object (see methods below).

    my $resul = $if->search_by_issn("issn");

=head3 name

Returns the journal name.

    say $result->name;

=head3 issn

Returns the journal ISSN number.

    say $result->issn;

=head3 year_2008

Return the Impact Factor for the year 2008.

    say $result->year_2008;

=head3 year_2009

Return the Impact Factor for the year 2009.

    say $result->year_2009;

=head3 year_2010

Return the Impact Factor for the year 2010.

    say $result->year_2010;

=head3 year_2011

Return the Impact Factor for the year 2011.

    say $result->year_2011;

=head3 year_2012

Return the Impact Factor for the year 2012.

    say $result->year_2012;

=head3 year_2013_2014

Return the Impact Factor for the years 2013/2014.

    say $result->year_2013_2014;

=head1 AUTHOR

Felipe da Veiga Leprevost, C<< <leprevost at cpan.org> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-journal-impactfactor at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Journal-ImpactFactor>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.




=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Journal::ImpactFactor


You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker (report bugs here)

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Journal-ImpactFactor>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Journal-ImpactFactor>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Journal-ImpactFactor>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Journal-ImpactFactor/>

=back


=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS


=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2014 Felipe da Veiga Leprevost.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the the Artistic License (2.0). You may obtain a
copy of the full license at:

L<http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>

Any use, modification, and distribution of the Standard or Modified
Versions is governed by this Artistic License. By using, modifying or
distributing the Package, you accept this license. Do not use, modify,
or distribute the Package, if you do not accept this license.

If your Modified Version has been derived from a Modified Version made
by someone other than you, you are nevertheless required to ensure that
your Modified Version complies with the requirements of this license.

This license does not grant you the right to use any trademark, service
mark, tradename, or logo of the Copyright Holder.

This license includes the non-exclusive, worldwide, free-of-charge
patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import and
otherwise transfer the Package with respect to any patent claims
licensable by the Copyright Holder that are necessarily infringed by the
Package. If you institute patent litigation (including a cross-claim or
counterclaim) against any party alleging that the Package constitutes
direct or contributory patent infringement, then this Artistic License
to you shall terminate on the date that such litigation is filed.

Disclaimer of Warranty: THE PACKAGE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER
AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES.
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE DISCLAIMED TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
YOUR LOCAL LAW. UNLESS REQUIRED BY LAW, NO COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
CONTRIBUTOR WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THE PACKAGE,
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


