=begin pod
=CHAPTER  WebDAO - platform for web applications.


B<WebDAO> - object-oriented system  for easy creation of high-performance and scalable web applications writen in I<perl>.

=head2 Key Features

=item *  Abstraction application code from the environment

=item *  Dynamic structure of the domain logic

=item *  Addressing objects by URL

=item *  Built-in support session parameters

=head3  Abstraction application code from the environment

There are many environments in which the web applications work:

    ---------------------------------------------
    |                                Apache     |
    | FastCGI                       CGI         |
    |           ------------------------        |
    |     nginx |                      |        |
    |           |     Your code        | isapi  |
    |           |                      |        |
    |            ----------------------         |
    |  Shell            Test::More      IIS     |
    |        lighttpd                           |
    ---------------------------------------------

B<WebDAO> designed to save developers from the details of the application environment, reduce costs with a change of environment, and to simplify debugging and testing applications. An important goal is to simplify and increase the speed of web development.

=head3 Dynamic structure of the domain logic

The structure of the domain logic is based on I<XML>(I<HTML>) file. The file name can be derived. For example, let his name be commonplace for web developers: I<index.xhtml>.

  <body>
  <div>
   <wd>
     <object class="MyTest" id="page"/>
   </wd>
  </div>
  </body>

In this text, except for XHTML tags are used more, for example: I<wd> and I<object>. Tag I<wd> is a sign of the special (I<interpreted>) field. While there is no support for the XML namespace, but over time, I promise, it will appear.

Tags I<wd> frame area in which there are definitions of objects and other interpretable tags. In the above example, using the I<command> creates a instance of the class I<MyTest> and identifier: I<page>. This object identifier is used in the URL. For example:

    http://example.org/page
    http://example.org/page/Method?par1=1&par2=2

    
In the package I<WebDAO> include lexical analyzer, which processes the file and builds a structure of objects.

Create a file C<MyTest.pm> with the following content:

    package MyTest;
    use WebDAO;
    use base 'WebDAO';
    
    sub fetch {
        "Hello Web X.0!";
    }
    1;

Each of the domain structures involved in the formation of the results, shows himself. Therefore, in this example, the resulting XHTML will look like this:

    <body>
    <div>
       Hello Web X.0!
    </div>
    </body>

=head3 Addressing objects by URL

One of the main ideas I<WebDAO> - resolve the URL to the domain structure of objects.
For example, for URL:

    http:://example.com/test/Method?param=1&param2

Will be called the method I<Method> at  object I<test>.     
The names of public methods that are available for applications from outside begin with a capital letter. The names of objects can be arbitrary.If the method is not specified - using the name I<index_x>. If this method is not available at the object, returned to the status of "404: Not found". Thus the address below:

    http:://example.com/test/?param=1&param2
    http:://example.com/test/

Equivalent to the following:

    http:://example.com/test/index_x?param=1&param2
    http:://example.com/test/index_x


=end pod
