=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Log::Report::Lexicon - translations

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is the main extry point for the distribution, but has
currently no further use.  This distribution contains all components
of L<Log::Report|Log::Report> which handle translations.

If you do not need translations, you do not need to install this module.
When you use L<Log::Report|Log::Report> and need to add translations, it may be
very little work: when you nicely wrote texts in the advised message
format like

   print __x"Greetings to you, {name}", name => $name;
   fault __x"cannot open file {filename}", filename => $fn;

then all is in perfect condition to introduce translations: it requires
very little to no additions to the existing code!

In this distribution:

=over 4

=item * L<Log::Report::Extract|Log::Report::Extract>

Logic used by the F<xgettext-perl> binary (also included here) to
extract msgid's from perl scripts and (website) templates.

=item * L<Log::Report::Lexicon::Table|Log::Report::Lexicon::Table>

Translation table administration, in PO or MO format.

=item * L<Log::Report::Lexicon::Index|Log::Report::Lexicon::Index>

Translation table file file administration, understanding locales,
domains, and attributes in the filenames.

=item * L<Log::Report::Translator|Log::Report::Translator>

The run-time component of translations.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Log::Report::Lexicon-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

=back

=head2 Accessors

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Log-Report-Lexicon distribution version 1.08,
built on June 29, 2017. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/log-report/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the Artistic license.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/artistic.html>

