=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Log::Report::Win32Locale - unix/windows locales

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Log::Report::Win32Locale
   is a Exporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # Only usable on Windows
  print codepage_to_iso(0x0413);   # nl-NL
  print iso_to_codepage('nl_NL');  # 1043
  printf "%x", iso_to_codepage('nl_NL');  # 413

  my $iso = iso_locale(ms_codepage_id());
  my $iso = iso_locale;  # same

  print charset_encoding;          # cp1252
  print ms_codepage_id;            # 1043
  print ms_install_codepage_id;    # 1043
  print ms_locale;                 # Dutch (Netherlands)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Windows uses different locales to represent languages: codepages. Programs
which are written with Log::Report however, will contain ISO encoded
language names; this module translates between them.

The algorithms in this module are based on Win32::Locale and Win32::Codepage.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item B<charset_encoding>()

Returns the encoding name (usable with module Encode) based on the current
codepage.  For example, C<cp1252> for iso-8859-1 (latin-1) or C<cp932> for
Shift-JIS Japanese.  Returns undef if the encoding cannot be identified.

=item B<codepage_to_iso>($codepage)

Translate windows $codepage into ISO code.  The $codepage is numeric
or a hex string like '0x0304'.

=item B<iso_locale>( [$codepage] )

Returns the ISO string for the Microsoft codepage locale.  Might return
C<undef>/false.  By default, the actual codepage is used.

=item B<iso_to_codepage>($iso)

Returns the numeric value of the codepage.  The $iso may look like
this: C<xx_YY>.  Then, first the C<xx_YY> is looked-up.  If that does
not exist, C<xx> is tried.

=item B<ms_codepage_id>()

Returns the numeric language ID for the current codepage language.
For example, the numeric value for C<0x0409> for C<en-US>, and C<0x0411>
for C<ja>.  Returns false if the codepage cannot be identified.

=item B<ms_install_codepage_id>()

Returns the numeric language ID for the installed codepage language.
This is like L<ms_codepage_id()|Log::Report::Win32Locale/"FUNCTIONS">, but refers to the codepage that was
the default when Windows was first installed.

=item B<ms_locale>()

Returns the locale setting from the control panel.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Log-Report-Lexicon distribution version 1.09,
built on August 28, 2017. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/log-report/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

