=head1 NAME

Mojolicious::Plugin::CSRFProtect - Fully protects you from CSRF attacks

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    # Mojolicious
    $self->plugin('CSRFProtect');

    # Mojolicious::Lite
    plugin 'CSRFProtect';

    # Use "form_for" helper and all your html forms will have CSRF protection token

    <%= form_for login => (method => 'post') => begin %>
           <%= text_field 'first_name' %>
           <%= submit_button %>
    <% end %>

    # Place jquery_ajax_csrf_protection helper to your layout template
    # and all non GET/HEAD/OPTIONS  AJAX requests will have CSRF protection token (requires JQuery)

    <%= jquery_ajax_csrf_protection %>

    # Custom error handling
    $self->plugin('CSRFProtect', on_error => sub {
        my $c = shift;
        # Do whatever you want here
        # ...
    });

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::CSRFProtect> is a L<Mojolicious> plugin which fully protects you from CSRF attacks.

It does following things:

1. Adds a hidden input (with name 'csrftoken') with CSRF protection token to every form
(works only if you use C<form_for> helper from Mojolicious::Plugin::TagHelpers.)

2. Adds the header "X-CSRF-Token" with CSRF token to every AJAX request (works with JQuery only)

3. Rejects all non GET/HEAD/OPTIONS requests without the correct CSRF protection token.


If you want protect your GET/HEAD/OPTIONS requests then you can do it manually

In template: <a href="/delete_user/123/?csrftoken=<%= csrftoken %>">

In controller: $self->is_valid_csrftoken()

=head1 CONFIG

=head2 C<on_error>

You can pass custom error handling callback. For example

    $self->plugin('CSRFProtect', on_error => sub {
        my $c = shift;
        $c->render(template => 'error_403', status => 403 );
    });

=head1 HELPERS

=head2 C<form_for>

This helper overrides the C<form_for> helper from Mojolicious::Plugin::TagHelpers

and adds hidden input with CSRF protection token.

=head2 C<jquery_ajax_csrf_protection>

This helper adds CSRF protection headers to all JQuery AJAX requests.

You should add <%= jquery_ajax_csrf_protection %> in head of your HTML page.

=head2 C<csrftoken>

returns  CSRF Protection token.

In templates <%= csrftoken %>

In controller $self->csrftoken;

=head2 C<is_valid_csrftoken>

With this helper you can check $csrftoken manually. It will take $csrftoken from $c->param('csrftoken');

$self->is_valid_csrftoken() will return 1 or 0

=head1 AUTHOR

Viktor Turskyi <koorchik@cpan.org>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-mojolicious-plugin-csrfprotect at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Mojolicious-Plugin-CSRFProtect>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.

Also you can report bugs to Github L<https://github.com/koorchik/Mojolicious-Plugin-CSRFProtect/>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<Mojolicious::Plugin::CSRFDefender>

This plugin followes the same aproach but it works in different manner.

It will parse your response body searching for '<form>' tag and then will insert CSRF token there.

=back

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2011 Viktor Turskyi

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.

=cut
