=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Hash::Case::Lower - hash with enforced lower cased keys

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Hash::Case::Lower
   is a Hash::Case
   is a Tie::StdHash

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Hash::Case::Lower;
  tie my(%lchash), 'Hash::Case::Lower';
  $lchash{StraNGeKeY} = 3;
  print keys %lchash;  # strangekey

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Hash::Case::Lower|Hash::Case::Lower> extends L<Hash::Case|Hash::Case>, which lets you play various
trics with hash keys. In this implementation, the fake hash is case
insensitive and the keys stored in lower-case.

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in Hash::Case|Hash::Case/"DESCRIPTION">.

=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in Hash::Case|Hash::Case/"METHODS">.

=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in Hash::Case|Hash::Case/"Constructors">.

=over 4

=item tie B<%hash>, 'Hash::Case::Lower', [$values,] %options

Define C<%hash> to have only lower-cased keys.  The hash is initialized with
the C<$values>, specified as ARRAY (with key-value PAIRS) or HASH.
Currently, there are no C<%options> defined.
Improves base, see L<Hash::Case/"Constructors">

=back

=head2 Hidden object access

Extends L<"Hidden object access" in Hash::Case|Hash::Case/"Hidden object access">.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addHashData>(\%data)

Inherited, see L<Hash::Case/"Hidden object access">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addPairs>(@pairs)

Inherited, see L<Hash::Case/"Hidden object access">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<setHash>(\%data)

Inherited, see L<Hash::Case/"Hidden object access">

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Hash-Case version 1.07,
built on January 26, 2026. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

For contributors see file ChangeLog.

This software is copyright (c) 2002-2026 by Mark Overmeer.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

