=head1 NAME

Unix::Statgrab::sg_fs_stats - container for libstatgrab filesystem statistics

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Unix::Statgrab::sg_fs_stats> is a Perl package name providing
accessors to bundled libstatgrab L<sg_fs_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_fs_stats.3.html> filesystem statistics.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 nentries

Returns the number of entries in the container.

=head2 systime

Returns the seconds since Epoch (0:00:00 on January, 1st 1970) of the time measure the filesystem statistics.

=head2 as_list

B<Deprecated> alias of L</fetchall_hash>

=head2 fetchall_hash

Returns all records from L<sg_fs_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_fs_stats.3.html>
container as list of hash containing each datum name as key and the datum as value.

=head2 fetchall_array

Returns all records from L<sg_fs_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_fs_stats.3.html>
container as list of arrays containing the values in following order:

  (device_name fs_type mnt_point device_type size used free avail
   total_inodes used_inodes free_inodes avail_inodes
   io_size block_size
   total_blocks used_blocks free_blocks avail_blocks
   systime)

in that order without leading headline.

=head2 fetchall_table

Returns all records from L<sg_fs_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_fs_stats.3.html>
container as list of arrays containing the values in following order:

  (device_name fs_type mnt_point device_type size used free avail
   total_inodes used_inodes free_inodes avail_inodes
   io_size block_size
   total_blocks used_blocks free_blocks avail_blocks
   systime)

in that order including leading headline.

=head2 fetchrow_arrayref($row = 0)

Returns one row as array containing values as above.

=head2 fetchall_arrayref

Returns all records from L<sg_fs_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_fs_stats.3.html>
container as array of arrays without header.

=head2 fetchrow_hashref($row = 0)

Returns one row as hash containing C<< { device_name => $self.device_name($row), fs_type => ... } >>.

=head2 fetchall_hashref

Returns all records from L<sg_fs_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_fs_stats.3.html>
container as array of hashes.

=head2 colnames

Returns list of column names: C<< (device_name fs_type mnt_point device_type size used free avail total_inodes used_inodes free_inodes avail_inodes io_size block_size total_blocks used_blocks free_blocks avail_blocks systime) >>

=head2 device_name

Name of the device the filesystem statistics belong to

=head2 device_canonical

Canonical name of the device the filesystem statistics belong to

=head2 fs_type

Filesystem type (as string), e.g. "zfs"

=head2 mnt_point

Path name of mount point for the file system

=head2 device_type

Bitwise combination of C<sg_fs_regular sg_fs_special sg_fs_loopback sg_fs_remote>, usually one of

=head2 size

Size of filesystem, in bytes

=head2 used

Used bytes of filesystem

=head2 free

Free bytes in filesystem

=head2 avail

Available bytes in filesystem (free - reserved)

=head2 total_inodes

Total number of inodes in filesystem

=head2 used_inodes

Used number of inodes in filesystem

=head2 free_inodes

Free number of inodes in filesystem

=head2 avail_inodes

Available inodes in filesystem (free - reserved)

=head2 io_size

Optimal size for I/O for this filesystem in bytes

=head2 block_size

Size of blocks in bytes

=head2 total_blocks

Total number of blocks in filesystem

=head2 used_blocks

Used number of blocks in filesystem

=head2 free_blocks

Free number of blocks in filesystem

=head2 avail_blocks

Available blocks in filesystem (free - reserved)

=head2 get_fs_stats_diff

Provides the difference between the last measurement and the recent one.

  $recent->get_fs_stats_diff($last);

=head1 CONSTANTS

    sg_fs_unknown sg_fs_regular sg_fs_special sg_fs_loopback sg_fs_remote
    sg_fs_local sg_fs_alltypes

=head1 AUTHOR

Jens Rehsack, E<lt>rehsack AT cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2012-2018 by Jens Rehsack

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

=cut
