=head1 NAME

Unix::Statgrab::sg_network_io_stats - container for libstatgrab network I/O statistics

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Unix::Statgrab::sg_network_io_stats> is a Perl package name providing
accessors to bundled libstatgrab L<sg_network_io_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_network_io_stats.3.html> network I/O statistics.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 nentries

Returns the number of entries in the container.

=head2 systime

Returns the seconds since Epoch (0:00:00 on January, 1st 1970) of the time measure the network I/O statistics.

=head2 as_list

B<Deprecated> alias of L</fetchall_hash>

=head2 fetchall_hash

Returns all records from L<sg_network_io_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_network_io_stats.3.html>
container as list of hash containing each datum name as key and the datum as value.

=head2 fetchall_array

Returns all records from L<sg_network_io_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_network_io_stats.3.html>
container as list of arrays containing the values in following order:

  (interface_name tx rx ipackets opackets ierrors oerrors collisions systime)

in that order without leading headline.

=head2 fetchall_table

Returns all records from L<sg_network_io_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_network_io_stats.3.html>
container as list of arrays containing the values in following order:

  (interface_name tx rx ipackets opackets ierrors oerrors collisions systime)

in that order including leading headline.

=head2 fetchrow_arrayref($row = 0)

Returns one row as array containing values as above.

=head2 fetchall_arrayref

Returns all records from L<sg_network_io_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_network_io_stats.3.html>
container as array of arrays without header.

=head2 fetchrow_hashref($row = 0)

Returns one row as hash containing C<< { interface_name => $self.interface_name($row), tx => ... } >>.

=head2 fetchall_hashref

Returns all records from L<sg_network_io_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_network_io_stats.3.html>
container as array of hashes.

=head2 colnames

Returns list of column names: C<< (interface_name tx rx ipackets opackets ierrors oerrors collisions systime) >>

=head2 interface_name

The name known to the operating system. (e.g. on linux it might be eth0, on AIX en0 and on FreeBSD fxp0)

=head2 tx

The number of bytes transmitted.

=head2 rx

The number of bytes received.

=head2 ipackets

The number of packets received.

=head2 opackets

The number of packets transmitted.

=head2 ierrors

The number of receive errors.

=head2 oerrors

The number of transmit errors.

=head2 collisions

The number of collisions.

=head2 get_network_io_stats_diff

Provides the difference between the last measurement and the recent one.

  $recent->get_network_io_stats_diff($last);

=head1 AUTHOR

Jens Rehsack, E<lt>rehsack AT cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2012-2018 by Jens Rehsack

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

=cut
