=head1 NAME

Unix::Statgrab::sg_network_iface_stats - container for libstatgrab network interface statistics

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Unix::Statgrab::sg_network_iface_stats> is a Perl package name providing
accessors to bundled libstatgrab L<sg_network_iface_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_network_iface_stats.3.html> network interface statistics.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 nentries

Returns the number of entries in the container.

=head2 systime

Returns the seconds since Epoch (0:00:00 on January, 1st 1970) of the time measure the network interface statistics.

=head2 as_list

B<Deprecated> alias of L</fetchall_hash>

=head2 fetchall_hash

Returns all records from L<sg_network_iface_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_network_iface_stats.3.html>
container as list of hash containing each datum name as key and the datum as value.

=head2 fetchall_array

Returns all records from L<sg_network_iface_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_network_iface_stats.3.html>
container as list of arrays containing the values in following order:

  (interface_name speed factor duplex up systime)

in that order without leading headline.

=head2 fetchall_table

Returns all records from L<sg_network_iface_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_network_iface_stats.3.html>
container as list of arrays containing the values in following order:

  (interface_name speed factor duplex up systime)

in that order including leading headline.

=head2 fetchrow_arrayref($row = 0)

Returns one row as array containing values as above.

=head2 fetchall_arrayref

Returns all records from L<sg_network_iface_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_network_iface_stats.3.html>
container as array of arrays without header.

=head2 fetchrow_hashref($row = 0)

Returns one row as hash containing C<< { disk_name => $self.disk_name($row), read_bytes => ... } >>.

=head2 fetchall_hashref

Returns all records from L<sg_network_iface_stats|http://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/docs/sg_get_network_iface_stats.3.html>
container as array of hashes.

=head2 colnames

Returns list of column names: C<< (interface_name speed factor duplex up systime) >>

=head2 interface_name

The name of the interface known to the operating system. (e.g. on linux it might be eth0)

=head2 speed

The speed of the interface, in factor/sec

=head2 factor

The factor for the speed in bit/sec - e.g. 1'000'000 for megabit/sec

=head2 duplex

One of

    SG_IFACE_DUPLEX_FULL SG_IFACE_DUPLEX_HALF SG_IFACE_DUPLEX_UNKNOWN

=head2 up

True value when the interface is up

=head1 AUTHOR

Jens Rehsack, E<lt>rehsack AT cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2012-2018 by Jens Rehsack

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

=cut
