=head1 NAME

App::Wax - webify your CLI

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use App::Wax;

    exit App::Wax->new->run(\@ARGV);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<App::Wax> is the helper library for L<wax>, a command-line program which runs
other command-line programs and converts their URL arguments to local file paths.

See the L<wax> documentation for more details.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 app_name

B<Type>: Str, rw, default: "wax".

The application name used in L<debug|"debug"> and L<error|"log"> messages.

=head2 app_version

B<Type>: Str, ro.

The application version displayed in the output of the C<--version> option e.g.:

    $ wax --version # v1.2.3 (App::Wax v3.0.0)

The version is passed as a constructor argument by the command e.g.:

    App::Wax->new({ app_version: 'v1.2.3' })

If not supplied, it defaults to the module version.

=head2 cache

B<Type>: Bool, rw, default: false.

If set to true, the remote resource is saved to a persistent file whose path is
substituted for the resource's URL on subsequent invocations of the command.

If C<cache> and L<"mirror"> are both set to true, an exception is thrown.

=head2 directory

B<Type>: Str, rw, optional.

The directory to download remote resources to. If not supplied,
the system's L<temporary directory|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temporary_folder>
is used.

Can be checked with C<has_directory>.

=head2 keep

B<Type>: Bool, ro, default: false.

True if L<"cache"> or L<"mirror"> are true, false otherwise.
Used to determine which L<"resolve"> method to use.

=head2 mime_types

B<Type>: L<Mime::Types>, rw.

An instance of L<Mime::Types> used to help determine an extension for the file.

=head2 mirror

B<Type>: Bool, rw, default: false.

If set to true, the remote resource is saved to a persistent file. On subsequent
invocations, the resource is re-downloaded if it has been updated, and its path
is substituted for the resource's URL.

If L<"cache"> and L<"mirror"> are both set to true, an exception is thrown.

=head2 separator

B<Type>: Str, rw, default: "--".

A optional token used to mark the end of C<wax>'s options.

Can be cleared with C<clear_separator> and checked with C<has_separator>.

=head2 template

B<Type>: Str, rw.

The template format string supplied as the C<TEMPLATE> parameter to C<File::Temp-E<gt>new()>.

=head2 timeout

B<Type>: Int, rw, default: 60.

The timeout (in seconds) for HTTP requests.

=head2 user_agent

B<Type>: Str, rw.

The value of the HTTP client's C<User-Agent> header.

=head2 verbose

B<Type>: Bool, rw, default: false.

If set to true, diagnostic messages are printed to STDERR.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 content_type

B<Signature>: [ $url: Str, $url_index: Int ] -> $content_type: Str

Returns the value of the HTTP C<Content-Type> header for the supplied URL e.g. C<text/html>.

=head2 debug

B<Signature>: $message: Str -> None

Logs the message to STDERR if L<"verbose"> is set to true.

B<Signature>: $template: Str, @args: List[Str] -> None

Interpolates the arguments into the C<sprintf> template and logs the message to STDERR
if L<"verbose"> is set to true.

=head2 download

B<Signature>: [ $url: Str, $url_index: Int ], $path: Str -> Maybe[Str]

Saves the contents of the URL to the path. Returns the error message if an error ocurred.

=head2 dump_command

B<Signature>: $command: ArrayRef[Str] -> Str

Returns a string representation of the supplied command.

=head2 extension

B<Signature>: [ $url: Str, $url_index: Int ] -> $extension: Str

Returns the file extension for the given URL (e.g. C<.html>) if one can be determined from
the resource's C<Content-Type> header or the path component of the URL if it's
C<text/plain> or C<application/octet-stream>. Otherwise, returns an empty string.

=head2 is_url

B<Signature>: $param: Str -> $components: ArrayRef[Str] | Undef

Returns a true value (a reference to an array of URL components returned by
L<URI::Split/uri_split>) if the supplied string is a valid absolute
URL, false otherwise.

=head2 log

B<Signature>: $level: Str, $message: Str -> None

Logs the message, with the level prefixed, to STDERR.

B<Signature>: $level: Str, $template: Str, @args: List[Str] -> None

Interpolates the arguments into the C<sprintf> template and logs the message,
with the level prefixed, to STDERR.

=head2 resolve

B<Signature>: [ $url: Str, $url_index: Int ] -> ($path: Str, $error: Maybe[Str]): List|ArrayRef

Takes a URL and returns a list (list context) or ArrayRef (scalar context)
containing the file path corresponding to the URL, and an optional error
message if the download or I/O failed.

The path is returned by L<"resolve_keep"> if L<"keep"> is true,
or L<"resolve_temp"> otherwise.

=head2 resolve_keep

B<Signature>: [ $url: Str, $url_index: Int ] -> ($filename: Str, $error: Maybe[Str])

Returns the path the L<cached|"cache"> or L<mirrored|"mirror"> URL should be saved to/retrieved
from and an optional error message if creation of the index file failed.

C<resolve_keep> uses an additional file to store the resource's extension. If this file
can't be created, the error message is returned as the second element of the list.
Otherwise, it's undef.

=head2 resolve_temp

B<Signature>: [ $url: Str, $url_index: Int ] -> ($path: Str, $error: Maybe[Str])

Returns the path of the temporary file the URL should be saved to
and an optional error message if creation of the temporary file failed.

=head2 run

B<Signature>: $command: ArrayRef[Str] -> $exit_code: Int

Takes a command and runs it with filenames substituted for URLs. Returns the command's exit code.

=head1 EXPORT

None by default.

=head1 VERSION

3.1.0

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item * L<wax>

=item * L<RT #37347|http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=37347>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

chocolateboy <chocolate@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2010-2018 by chocolateboy.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the L<Artistic License 2.0|http://www.opensource.org/licenses/artistic-license-2.0.php>.

=cut
