=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

HTML::FromMail::Format::Magic - convert messages into HTML using Template::Magic

=head1 INHERITANCE

 HTML::FromMail::Format::Magic
   is a HTML::FromMail::Format
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Convert messages into HTML using L<Template::Magic>.  This is a simple
template system, which focusses on giving produced pieces of HTML a place
in larger HTML structures.

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in HTML::FromMail::Format|HTML::FromMail::Format/"DESCRIPTION">.

=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in HTML::FromMail::Format|HTML::FromMail::Format/"METHODS">.

=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in HTML::FromMail::Format|HTML::FromMail::Format/"Constructors">.

=over 4

=item $class-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

Z<>

=back

=head2 Attributes

Extends L<"Attributes" in HTML::FromMail::Format|HTML::FromMail::Format/"Attributes">.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<magic>()

Returns the Template::Magic object which is used.

=back

=head2 Other methods

Extends L<"Other methods" in HTML::FromMail::Format|HTML::FromMail::Format/"Other methods">.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<containerText>(\%options)

Inherited, see L<HTML::FromMail::Format/"Other methods">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<lookup>($tag, \%options)

Inherited, see L<HTML::FromMail::Format/"Other methods">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<lookupTemplate>(\%options, $zone)

Kind of autoloader, used to discover the correct method to be invoked
when a pattern must be filled-in.
The C<$zone> is the found Template::Magic::Zone information.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<onFinalToken>(\%options)

Inherited, see L<HTML::FromMail::Format/"Other methods">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<processText>($template, \%options)

Inherited, see L<HTML::FromMail::Format/"Other methods">

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of HTML-FromMail version 3.01,
built on November 21, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

For contributors see file ChangeLog.

This software is copyright (c) 2003-2025 by Mark Overmeer.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

