=head1 NAME

Date::EzDate2 - Date and time manipulation made easy

=head1 EzDate2 vs EzDate

EzDate2 is the next generation of the module Date::EzDate. EzDate2 provides
the same easy interface for dealing with date and time, but uses DateTime
to provide a wider and more accurate set of services.

EzDate2 is *NOT* a drop-in replacement for EzDate. That's why it's not just
an updated version of EzDate.

This early release is just to test EzDate2's distribution on CPAN. It's not yet
ready for prime time.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

An EzDate2 object represents a single point in time and exposes all properties
of that point.  It also makes it easy to change those properties to produce
a different point in time.  EzDate2 has many features, here are a few:

 use Date::EzDate2;
 my $mydate = Date::EzDate2->new();

 # output some date information
 print $mydate, "\n";  # e.g. output: Fri Jul 22, 2016 16:53:33

=head1 TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Copyright (c) 2016 by Miko O'Sullivan.  All rights reserved.  This program is
free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms
as Perl itself. This software comes with B<NO WARRANTY> of any kind.

=head1 AUTHOR

Miko O'Sullivan
F<miko@idocs.com>

Props also must be given to Dave Rolsky for his excellent DateTime module which
does the complex date and time calculations used by EzDate2.  Furthermore,
props also to the many people who have helped Dave with DateTime.

=head1 VERSION

Version: 0.01

=head1 HISTORY

=over 4

=item Version 0.01 July 22, 2016

Initial release.

=item Version 0.02 July 23, 2016

Added support for default time zone.

=item Version 0.03 Aug 6, 2016

Modified to use Tie::Hash.

=back

