package Elastic::Manual::Analysis;

# ABSTRACT: Controlling how your attributes are indexed

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Elastic::Manual::Analysis - Controlling how your attributes are indexed

=head1 VERSION

version 0.52

=head1 INTRODUCTION

Analysis plus the inverted index is the magic that makes full text search so
powerful.

=head2 Inverted index

The inverted index is an index structure which is very efficient for performing
fast full text searches.  For example, let's say we have three documents (taken
from recent headlines):

    1: Apple's patent absurdity exposed at last
    2: Apple patents surfaced last year
    3: Finally a sane judgement on patent trolls

The first stage is to "tokenize" the text in each document. We'll explain how
this happens later, but the tokenization process could give us:

    1: [ 'appl',  'patent', 'absurd',    'expos',  'last'  ]
    2: [ 'appl',  'patent', 'surfac',    'last',   'year'  ]
    3: [ 'final', 'sane',   'judgement', 'patent', 'troll' ]

Next, we invert this list, listing each token we find, and the documents that
contain that token:

             |  Doc_1  |  Doc_2  |  Doc_3
  -----------+---------+---------+--------
  absurd     |  xxx    |         |
  appl       |  xxx    |  xxx    |
  expos      |  xxx    |         |
  final      |         |         |  xxx
  judgement  |         |         |  xxx
  last       |  xxx    |  xxx    |
  patent     |  xxx    |  xxx    |  xxx
  sane       |         |         |  xxx
  surfac     |         |  xxx    |
  troll      |         |         |  xxx
  year       |         |  xxx    |
  -----------+---------+---------+--------

Now we can search the index.  Let's say we want to search for
C<"apple patent troll judgement">.  First we need to tokenize the search terms
in the same way that we did when we created the index.  (We can't find what
isn't in the index.)  This gives us:

    [ 'appl', 'patent', 'troll', 'judgement' ]

If we compare these terms to the index we get:

             |  Doc_1  |  Doc_2  |  Doc_3
  -----------+---------+---------+--------
  appl       |  xxx    |  xxx    |
  judgement  |         |         |  xxx
  patent     |  xxx    |  xxx    |  xxx
  troll      |         |         |  xxx
  -----------+---------+---------+--------
  Relevance  |  2      |  2      | 3

It is easy to see the Doc_3 is the most relevant document, because it has
more of the search terms than either of the other two.

This is an example of a simple inverted index.  Lucene (the full text search
engine used by Elasticsearch) has a much more sophisticated scoring system which
can consider, amongst other things:

=over

=item *

Term frequency

How often does a term/token appear in a document

=item *

Inverse document frequency

How often does the term appear throughout all the documents in the index

=item *

Coord

The number of terms in the query that were found in the document

=item *

Length norm

Measure of the importance of a term according to the total number of terms in
the field

=item *

Term position

How close is each term to related terms

=back

=head2 Analysis / Tokenization

What is obvious from the above, is that the way we "analyze" (ie convert text
into terms) is very important.  Also, it is important that we use the
same analyzer on the text that we store in the index (ie at index time) and on
the search keywords (ie at search time).

You can only find what is stored in the index.

An B<analyzer> is a package containing 0 or more character filters, one tokenizer
and 0 or more token filters.  Text is fed into the analyzer, and it produces
a stream of tokens, with other metadata such as the position of each term
relative to the others:

=over

=item Character filters

Character filters work on a character-by-character basis, effecting some sort of
transformation.  For instance, you may have a character filter which converts
particular characters into others, eg:

    ß  => ss
    œ  => oe
    ﬀ  => ff

or a character filter which strips out HTML and converts HTML entities into
their unicode characters.

=item Tokenizer

A tokenizer then breaks up the stream of characters into individual tokens.  Take
this sentence, for example:

    To order part #ABC-123 email "joe@foo.org"

The L<whitespace tokenizer|http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/analysis-whitespace-tokenizer.html>
would produce:

    'To', 'order', 'part', '#ABC-123', 'email', '"joe@foo.org"'

The L<letter tokenizer|http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/analysis-letter-tokenizer.html>
would produce:

    'To', 'order', 'part', 'ABC', 'email', 'joe', 'foo', 'org'

The L<keyword tokenizer|http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/analysis-keyword-tokenizer.html>
does NO tokenization - it just passes the input straight through, which isn't
terribly useful in this example, but is useful for (eg) a tag cloud, where you
don't want 'modern perl' to be broken up into two separate tokens: 'modern' and 'perl':

    'To order part #ABC-123 email "joe@foo.org"'

The L<standard tokenizer|http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/analysis-standard-tokenizer.html>
which uses Unicodes word boundary rules would produce:

    'To', 'order', 'part', 'ABC', '123', 'email', 'joe', 'foo.org'

And the L<UAX URL Email tokenizer|http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/analysis-uaxurlemail-tokenizer.html>,
which is like the standard tokenizer, but which recognises emails, URLs etc as
single entities would produce:

    'To', 'order', 'part', 'ABC', '123', 'email', 'joe@foo.org'

=item Token filters

Optionally, the token stream produced above can be passed through one or more
token filters, which can remove, change or add tokens.  For instance:

The L<lowercase filter|http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/analysis-lowercase-tokenfilter.html>
would convert all uppercase letters to lowercase:

    'to', 'order', 'part', 'abc', '123', 'email', 'joe@foo.org'

Then the L<stopword filter|http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/analysis-stop-tokenfilter.html>
could remove common (and thus generally irrelevant stopwords):

    'order', 'part', 'abc', '123', 'email', 'joe@foo.org'

=back

=head1 USING BUILT IN ANALYZERS

There are a number of analyzers that are built in to Elasticsearch, which can
be used directly, (see
L<http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/analysis.html> for a
current list) which can be used directly.

For instance the C<english> analyzer "stems" English words into their root,
eg "foxy", "fox" and "foxes" would all be converted to the term "fox".

    has 'title' => (
        is       => 'ro',
        isa      => 'Str',
        analyzer => 'english'
    );

=head2 Configurable analyzers

Some analyzers are configurable, for instance, the C<english> analyzer accepts
a custom list of stop-words.  In your model class, you configure the built-in
analyzer under a new name:

    package MyApp;

    use Elastic::Model;

    has_namespace 'myapp'. {
        post => 'MyApp::Post'
    };

    has_analyzer 'custom_english' => (
        type        => 'english',
        stopwords   => ['a','the','for']
    );

Then in your doc class, you specify the analyzer using the new name:

    package MyApp::Post;

    use Elastic::Doc;

    has 'title' => (
        is       => 'ro',
        isa      => 'Str',
        analyzer => 'custom_english'
    );

=head1 DEFINING CUSTOM ANALYZERS

You can also combine character filters, a tokenizer and token filters together
to form a custom analyzer,  For instance, in your model class:

    has_char_filter 'charmap' => (
        type        => 'mapping',
        mapping     => [ 'ß=>ss','œ=>oe','ﬀ=>ff' ]
    );

    has_tokenizer 'ascii_letters', => (
        type        => 'pattern',
        pattern     => '[^a-z]+',
        flags       => 'CASE_INSENSITIVE',
    );

    has_filter 'edge_ngrams' => (
        type        => 'edge_ngrams',
        min_gram    => 2,
        max_gram    => 20
    );

    has_analyzer 'my_custom_analyzer' => (
        type        => 'custom',
        char_filter => ['mapping'],
        tokenizer   => 'ascii_letters',
        filter      => ['lowercase','stop','edge_ngrams']
    );

=head1 PUTTING YOUR ANALYZERS LIVE

Analyzers can only be created on a new index.  You can't change them on
an existing index, because the data stored in the index would be wrong.

    my $myapp = MyApp->new;
    my $index = $myapp->namespace('myapp')->index;

    $index->delete;     # remove old index
    $index->create;     # create new index with new analyzers

It is, however, possible to ADD new analyzers to a closed index:

    $index->close;
    $index->update_analyzers;
    $index->open;

=head1 AUTHOR

Clinton Gormley <drtech@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2015 by Clinton Gormley.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
