package Elastic::Manual::Delta;

# ABSTRACT: Important changes in Elastic::Model

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Elastic::Manual::Delta - Important changes in Elastic::Model

=head1 VERSION

version 0.52

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This documents any important or noteworthy changes in L<Elastic::Model>, with
a focus on things that affect backwards compatibility. This does duplicate
data from the Changes file, but aims to provide more details and when possible
workarounds.

=head2 0.52

Elastic::Model is not compatible with Elasticsearch 2.x.  L<Search::Elasticsearch>,
however, defaults to using a 2.x compatible client: C<2_0::Direct>.  You should specify
the client version explicitly when creating a Search::Elasticsearch instance:

    use Search::Elasticsearch;
    use MyApp;

    my $es = Search::Elasticsearch->new(
        client => '1_0::Direct', #### explicit client ####
        nodes  => [ "192.168.1.100:9200", "192.168.1.101:9200"]
    );

    my $model = MyApp->new( es => $es )

=head2 0.51

Requires Search::Elasticsearch v1.20 or above.  Tested on Elasticsearch v1.6

=head2 0.50

This is the first version which supports the B<1.x releases of Elasticsearch>,
and it provides a migration path from the 0.90.x releases of Elasticsearch.

=over

=item L<Search::Elasticsearch>

You can no longer use the temporary L<Search::Elasticsearch::Compat> client with
Elastic::Model.  Instead, use the official L<Search::Elasticsearch> client:

    use Search::Elasticsearch;
    use MyApp;

    my $es = Search::Elasticsearch->new(
        client => '1_0::Direct',
        nodes  => [ "192.168.1.100:9200", "192.168.1.101:9200"]
    );

    my $model = MyApp->new( es => $es )

=item Migrating from 0.90.x to 1.x

You cannot mix nodes from 0.90.x with nodes from 1.x.  This leaves you with
two options:

=over

=item *

Shutdown the 0.90.x cluster and replace it with a 1.x cluster.

=item *

Run two clusters in parallel during the transition period.

=back

Either way, the migration path available in Elastic::Model v0.50 will help you
through the transition.

You can enable a "compatibility mode" which will allow you to use the same
code on 0.90.x and on 1.x by telling the Search::Elasticsearch module to use
the C<0_90::Client>:

    use Search::Elasticsearch;
    use MyApp;

    my $es = Search::Elasticsearch->new(
        nodes  => [ "192.168.1.100:9200", "192.168.1.101:9200"],
        client => '0_90::Client'
    );

    my $model = MyApp->new( es => $es )

If you are planning on running two clusters in parallel, then you can specify
a mixture of nodes from the 0.90.x cluster and the 1.x cluster in the C<nodes>
list.  The client will use whatever nodes are available.  This allows you to
start with just the 0.90.x cluster, bring up the 1.x cluster (it will talk to
both clusters), then take down the 0.90.x cluster.

Once the migration is finished, remove the `0_90::Client` and the 0.90.x nodes
and the compatibility mode will be disabled.

B<IMPORTANT>: If you writing to your index during transition, it is up to you
to  ensure that writes go to both clusters.  A safer approach is to only allow
reads during the transition phase.

B<NOTE>: While compatibility mode is enabled, C<include_paths> and
C<exclude_paths> (see L<Elastic::Model::View/"include_paths / exclude_paths">)
will be ignored. Instead of retrieving just the paths specified, it will
retrieve the whole document.

=item C<ignore_missing>

The C<ignore_missing> parameter is deprecated and should be replaced by, eg:

    $namespace->index('foo')->delete(ignore => 404);

For now, C<ignore_missing> will be translated to C<< ignore => 404 >> but will
warn about deprecation.

=item C<omit_norms> and C<omit_term_freq_and_positions>

These two options have been removed from Elasticsearch and replaced by the following
mapping:

    { "my_string_field": {
      "type":          "string",
      "norms":       { "enabled": "false" },
      "index_options": "docs"
    }}

These options were most useful for C<not_analyzed> fields, but they are no longer
required as they are now the default settings for C<not_analyzed> fields. If you
want to apply these settings to an C<analyzed>  string field, you can do so as
follows:

    has 'name' => (
        is      => 'rw',
        isa     => 'Str',
        type    => 'string',
        mapping => {
            norms         => { enabled => 0 },
            index_options => 'docs'
        }
    );

=item Responses from Elasticsearch

Some response formats have changed in Elasticsearch. The structure of the
C<get-mapping> and C<get-settings> responses have changed, responses no longer
include the C<ok> key, and the C<exists> has been replaced by C<found>.  The
C<field> values are now returned as arrays rather than scalars.

Compatibility mode makes some effort to normalize responses between 0.90.x and
1.x, but you should test your code on 1.x before migrating.

=item Scripting

Mvel is no longer enabled by default in Elasticsearch, and in 1.4 it will be
removed. However, the new scripting language (Groovy, which is available in
1.3 and will become the default in 1.4) is not available in 0.90.x.  To aid
migration, you should reenable Mvel scripting during transition. Once
complete, update all scripts to use Groovy instead.

See L<http://www.elasticsearch.org/blog/scripting/> for more.

=item Queries

Some queries have been removed in 1.x.  The C<text>, C<text_phrase>, and
C<text_phrase_prefix> queries have been replaced by C<match>, C<match_phrase>,
and C<match_phrase_prefix>.

The C<custom_score>, C<custom_boost_factor>, and C<custom_filters_score> queries
have been replaced by the C<function_score> query.

The C<numeric_range> filter no longer exists.

L<Elastic::Model::SearchBuilder> supports the C<match*> queries but still
needs to be updated to support the C<function_score> query.  In the meantime,
you can use the "raw" syntax.  See
L<ElasticSearch::SearchBuilder/"RAW-ELASTICSEARCH-QUERY-DSL">.

=item Aggregations

Aggregations are now supported (see L<Elastic::Model::View/aggs>) but only
in Elasticsearch 1.0 and above.

=item Field attribute deprecations

The following attribute deprecations are deprecated and will be removed in a future version:

=over

=item * field C<boost>

=item * C<index_name>

=item * C<precision_step>

=item * C<path>

=back

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Clinton Gormley <drtech@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2015 by Clinton Gormley.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
