package Elastic::Manual::Reindex;

# ABSTRACT: How to reindex your data from an old index to a new index

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Elastic::Manual::Reindex - How to reindex your data from an old index to a new index

=head1 VERSION

version 0.52

=head1 INTRODUCTION

While you can add to the L<mapping|Elastic::Manual::Terminology/Mapping> of
an index, you can't change what is already there. Especially during development,
you will need to L<reindex|Elastic::Model::Index/reindex()> your data to a new
index.

=head1 USE ALIASES INSTEAD OF INDICES

The easiest way to work is to have the L<Elastic::Model::Namespace/name>
be an L<index alias|Elastic::Manual::Terminology/Alias> which points at the
current version of your index.  For instance:

    my $ns = $model->namespace( 'myapp' );
    $ns->index( 'myapp_v1' )->create;
    $ns->alias->to( 'myapp_v1' );

Now you're ready to start indexing data into C<myapp>:

    my $domain = $model->domain( 'myapp' );
    $domain->create( user => { name => 'John'} );

When you need to change your mapping, you can just reindex to a new index:

    # create 'myapp_v2' if it doesn't exist, and
    # copy 'myapp_v1' to 'myapp_v2'
    $ns->index( 'myapp_v2' )->reindex( 'myapp' );

    # update alias 'myapp' to point to 'myapp_v2'
    $ns->alias->to( 'myapp_v2' );

    # delete the old 'myapp_v1'
    $ns->index( 'myapp_v1' )->delete;

=head1 UPDATING UIDS

Imagine you have a C<$post> object which has a C<user> attribute.  The
L<UID|Elastic::Model::UID> of the user is stored in Elasticsearch, which
includes the index name.

When you reindex your data from C<myapp_v1> to C<myapp_v2>,
L<reindex()|Elastic::Model::Index/reindex()> will automatically update
all UIDs in the reindexed data to point to the new index.

=head1 UPDATING UIDS IN OTHER INDICES

Now imagine that you have another index (one you're not reindexing) which also
has UIDs which point to the old index.  These will no longer be valid. You
need to update the old UIDs to point to the new index.

This will also be done automatically by
L<reindex()|Elastic::Model::Index/reindex()>, but you can disable it with:

    $index->reindex( 'myapp:v1', repoint_uids => 0 );

=head1 CHANGING DOC STRUCTURE WHILE REINDEXING

If the structure of your Doc class has changed, then you may need to change
the structure of each doc before reindexing it.  To do so, you can pass
a C<transform> callback.

The C<transform> sub is called before any other changes are made to your doc,
and is passed the C<$doc> as its only parameter. It should return the new
C<$doc>.

For instance, to convert the single-value C<tag> field to an array of C<tags>,
you could do:

    $index->reindex(
        'new_index',
        'transform' => sub {
            my $doc = shift;
            $doc->{_source}{tags} = [ delete $doc->{_source}{tag} ];
            return $doc
        }
    );

=head1 TODO

=over

=item *

Reindex in parallel

=item *

Reindex a live index

=item *

Keep two indices in sync

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Clinton Gormley <drtech@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2015 by Clinton Gormley.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
