package Elastic::Manual::Terminology;

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Elastic::Manual::Terminology - Explanation of terminology and concepts

=head1 VERSION

version 0.52

=head1 MAIN ELASTICSEARCH TERMS

=head2 Index

An "Index" is the equivalent of a "database" in a relational DB (not to be
confused with an "index" in a relational DB). It has a L</Mapping>,
which defines multiple L<Types|/Type>.

Internally, an Index is a logical namespace which points to one or more
L<primary shards|/Shard>, each of which may have zero or more
replica shards.  You can change the number of replica shards on an
existing index, but the number of primary shards is fixed at index
creation time.

Searches can be performed across multiple indices.

B<Note:> an index name must be a lower case string, without any spaces.

See also L</Alias>, L</Domain>, L<Elastic::Model::Index> and
L<Elastic::Manual::Scaling>.

=head2 Alias

An "Alias" is like a shortcut to one or more L<Indices|/Index>. For instance, you
could have Alias C<myapp> which points to Index C<myapp_v1>. Your code can
talk just to the Alias.

When you want to change the structure of your index, you could reindex all your
docs to the new Index C<myapp_v2> and, when ready, switch the C<myapp> Alias to point to
C<myapp_v2> instead.

An Alias may also point to multiple indices. For example you might have
indices C<logs_jan_2012>, C<logs_feb_2012>, ... C<logs_dec_2012>, and an alias
C<logs_2012> which points to all 12 indices.  This allows you to use a single
alias name to search multiple indices.

B<Note:> you can't index new docs to an alias that points to multiple indices.
An alias used by a L</Domain> must point to a single index only, but an alias
used by a L</View> can point to multiple indices.

Also see L</Domain>, L<Elastic::Model::Alias> and L<Elastic::Manual::Scaling>.

=head2 Type

A "Type" is like a "table" in a relational DB.  For instance, you may have
a C<user> type, a C<comment> type etc. An L</Index> can have multiple
types (just like a database can have multiple tables). In Elastic::Model,
objects (L<Documents|/Document>) of each type are handled by a single
class, eg C<MyApp::User>, C<MyApp::Comment>. (See L</Namespace>).

Each Type has a L</Mapping>, which defines the list of L<Fields|/Field>
in that type. Searches can be performed across multiple types.

Also see L</Namespace>, L</Mapping>, L</Document> and L</Field>.

=head2 Mapping

Each L</Type> has a "Mapping" which is like a "schema definition" in
a relational DB. It defines various type-wide settings, plus the field-type
(eg C<integer>, C<object>, C<string>) for each L</Field> (attribute) in the type,
and specifics about how each field should be L<analyzed|/Analysis>.

New fields can be added to a mapping, but generally existing fields may not
be changed. Instead, you have to create a new index with the new mapping and
L<reindex|Elastic::Manual::Reindex> your data.

Elastic::Model generates the mapping for you using Moose's introspection.
L<Attribute keywords|Elastic::Model::Attributes> are provided to give you
control over the mapping process.

=head2 Document

A "Document" is like a "row" in a relational DB table.  Elastic::Model
converts your objects into a JSON object (essentially a hashref), which
is the Document that is stored in Elasticsearch.  We use the terms
"Object" and "Document" interchangably.

Each Document is stored in a single L<primary shard|/Shard> in an L</Index>,
has a single L</Type>, an L</ID> and zero or more L<Fields|/Field>.

The original JSON object is stored in the special C<_source> field, which
is returned by default when you retrieve a document by ID, or when you
perform a search.

=head2 Field

A "Field" is like a "column" in a table in a relational DB. Each field has
a field-type, eg C<integer>, C<string>, C<datetime> etc.  The attributes
of your Moose classes are stored as fields.

Multi-level hashes can be stored, but internally these get flattened.
For instance:

    {
        husband => {
            firstname => 'Joe',
            surname   => 'Bloggs'
        },
        wife => {
            firstname => 'Alice',
            surname   => 'Bloggs'
        }
    }

... is flattened to:

    {
        'husband.firstname' => 'Joe',
        'husband.surname'   => 'Bloggs',
        'wife.firstname'    => 'Alice',
        'wife.surname'      => 'Bloggs',
    }

You could search on the C<firstname> field, which would search the firstname
for both the husband and the wife, or by specifying the fieldname
in full, you could search on just the C<husband.firstname> field.

=head2 ID

The "ID" of a document identifies a document uniquely in an L</Index>.
If no ID is provided, then it will be auto-generated.

See also L</UID> and L</Routing>.

=head1 ELASTIC::MODEL TERMS

=head2 Model

A "Model" is the Boss Object, which ties an instance of your application to
a particular Elasticsearch L</Cluster>. You can have multiple instances of your
Model class which connect to different clusters.

See L<Elastic::Model> and L<Elastic::Model::Role::Model> for more.

=head2 Namespace

A L</Model> can contain multiple "Namespaces". A Namespace has one or more
L<Domains|/Domain> and, for those Domains, defines which of
your classes should be used for a L</Document> of a particular
L</Type>.

For instance: in Domain C<myapp_current>, which belongs to Namespace C<myapp>,
objects of class C<MyApp::User> should be stored in Elasticsearch as documents
of Type C<user>.

A namespace is also used for administering (creating, deleting, updating)
L<Indices|/Index> or L<Aliases|/Alias> in Elasticsearch.

See L<Elastic::Model::Namespace> and L</Domain>.

=head2 Domain

A "Domain" is like a database handle used for creating, updating or deleting
individual objects or L<Documents|/Document>. The C<< $domain->name >> can be
the name of an L</Index> or an L<Index Alias|/Alias> (which points to a single
index) in Elasticsearch. A domain can only belong to a single
L<namespace|/Namespace>.

See L<Elastic::Model::Domain>.

=head2 View

A "View" is used for querying documents/objects in Elasticsearch.  A View
can query single or multiple L<Domains|/Domain> (belonging to different
L<Namespaces|/Namespace>) and single or multiple L<Types|/Type>.

See L<Elastic::Model::View>, L</Query> and L</Filter>.

=head2 UID

A "UID" is the unique identifier of a L</Document>. It is handled by
L<Elastic::Model::UID>. The L</Namespace> / L</Type> / L</ID> combination of
a document must be unique. While Elasticsearch will check for "uniqueness" in
a single L</Index> it is the reponsbility of the user to ensure uniqueness across
all of the L<Domains|/Domain> in a L</Namespace>.

Also see L</Routing>.

=head1 SEARCH TERMS

=head2 Analysis

"Analysis" is the process of converting L<Full Text|/Text> to L<Terms|/Term>.
For instance the C<english> analyzer will convert this phrase:

    The QUICK brown Fox has been noted to JUMP over lazy dogs.

... into these terms/tokens:

    quick, brown, fox, ha, been, note, jump, over, lazi, dog

... which is what is actually stored in the index.

A full text query (not a term query) for C<"brown FOXES and a Lazy dog"> will
also be analyzed to the terms C<"brown, fox, lazi, dog">, and will thus
match the terms stored in the index.

It is this process of analysis (both at index time and at search time) that
allows Elasticsearch to perform full text queries.

See also L</Text> and L</Term> and L</Query>.

=head2 Term

A term is an exact value that is indexed in Elasticsearch. The terms
C<foo>, C<Foo>, C<FOO> are NOT equivalent. Terms (ie exact values) can be
searched for using "term" queries.

See also L</Text>, L</Analysis> and L</Query>.

=head2 Text

Text (or full text) is ordinary unstructured text, such as this paragraph.
By default, text will by L<analyzed|/Analysis> into L<terms|/Term>, which is
what is actually stored in the index.

Text fields need to be analyzed at index time in order to be searchable as
full text, and keywords in full text queries must be analyzed at search time
to produce (and search for) the same terms that were generated at index time.

See also L</Term>, L</Analysis> and L</Query>.

=head2 Query

A "Query" is used to search for L<Documents|/Document> in Elasticsearch, using
L<Views|/View>.  It can be expressed either in the native
L<Elasticsearch Query DSL|http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl.html>
or using the more Perlish L<ElasticSearch::SearchBuilder> syntax.

By default, a Query sorts the results by relevance (C<_score>).

There are two broad groups of queries: L</Full Text Query> and L</Term Query>.

=head3 Term Query

A "Term Query" searches for exactly the L<Terms|/Term> provided.  For instance,
a search for C<"FOO"> will not match the term C<"foo">.

This is useful for values that are not full text, eg enums, dates, numbers,
canonicalized post codes, etc.

=head3 Full Text Query

A "Full Text Query" is useful for searching text like this paragraph.  The
search keywords are first L<Analyzed|/Analysis> into L<Terms|/Term> so that they
correspond to the actual values that are stored in Elasticsearch. Then the query
itself is built up out of multiple L<Term Queries|/Term Query>.

It is important to use the same analyzer on both (1) the values in the field(s) you
are searching (index analyzer) and (2) the search keywords in the query
(search analyzer), so that the both processes produce the same terms. Otherwise,
they won't match.

Also see L</Filter> and L</View>.

=head2 Filter

A "Filter" is similar to a L</Term Query> except that there is no
"relevance scoring" phase.  A Filter says: "Yes this document should be included",
or "No this document should be excluded".

For instance, you may want to run a L</Full Text Query> on your BlogPost
documents, searching for the keywords C<"perl moose">, but only for
BlogPosts that have been published this year.  This could be achieved
by using a Range filter within a query.

Filters can be expressed either in the native
L<Elasticsearch Query DSL|http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl.html>
or using the more Perlish L<ElasticSearch::SearchBuilder> syntax.

Also see L</Query> and L</View>.

=head1 OTHER ELASTICSEARCH TERMS

=head2 Cluster

A "Cluster" is a collection of L<Nodes|/Node> which function together - they
all share the same
L<cluster.name|http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/setup-configuration.html#system>.
The cluster elects a single "master node" which controls the cluster.
If the master node fails, another node is automatically elected.

=head2 Node

A "Node" is a running instance of Elasticsearch. Normally, you would only run
one instance of Elasticsearch on one server, so a Node is roughly equivalent
to a server. When a Node starts, it tries to join a L</Cluster>
which shares the same cluster name.  If it fails to find an existing cluster,
it will form a new one.

=head2 Shard

A "Shard" is a single instance of Lucene (what Elasticsearch uses internally
to provide its search function).  Shards are the building blocks
of L<Indices|/Index> - each index consists of at least one shard.

A shard can be a "primary shard" or a "replica shard".  A primary shard
is responsible for storing a newly indexed doc first.  Once it has been
indexed by the primary shard, the new doc is indexed on all of the replica
shards (if there are any) in parallel to ensure that there are multiple
copies of each document in the cluster.

If a primary shard fails, then a replica shard will be promoted to be
a primary shard, and a new replica will be allocated on a different
L</Node>, if there is one available.

A replica shard will never run on the same node as its primary shard, otherwise
if that node were to go down, it would take both the primary and replica shard
with it.

=head2 Routing

When you index a document, it is stored on a single L<primary shard|/Shard>.
That shard is chosen by hashing the "Routing" value. By default, the Routing
value is derived from the L</ID> of the document or, if the document has a
specified parent document, from the ID of the parent document
(to ensure that child and parent documents are stored on the same shard).

This value can be overridden by specifying a C<routing> value at index time,
a routing field in the L<mapping|/Mapping> or by using an L</Alias> with
a built-in routing.  See L<Elastic::Manual::Scaling> for more.

=head1 AUTHOR

Clinton Gormley <drtech@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2015 by Clinton Gormley.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut

__END__

# ABSTRACT: Explanation of terminology and concepts

