
=head1 NAME

Fennec::Manual - The Fennec Manual

=head1 COMPONENT DOCS

=over 4

=item Fennec

L<Fennec> - The main glue and interface module.

=item Fennec::Declare

B<Note:> L<Fennec::Declare> is a separate distribution, and must be installed
separately.

L<Fennec::Declare> - Provides the syntax sugar.

=item Test::Workflow

L<Test::Workflow> - Provides RSPEC utilities.

=item Mock::Quick

L<Mock::Quick> - Provides the mocking capabilities.

=item Child

L<Child> - Provides the forking interface

=item Parallel::Runner

L<Parallel::Runner> - Used to manage concurrency.

=item Exporter::Declare

L<Exporter::Declare> - The exporting interface used in most components of Fennec.

=back

=head1 CUSTOMIZATION

See the L<Fennec::Manual::CustomFennec> documentation.

=head1 SEE ALSO

These are modules loaded by Fennec, but not built as part of the Fennec project.

=over 4

=item Test::Builder

L<Test::Builder> - The popular TAP outputting testing library.

=item Test::More

L<Test::More> - The most commonly used testing tools.

=item Test::Warn

L<Test::Warn> - Check your code that produces warnings.

=item Test::Exception

L<Test::Exception> - Check your code that throws exceptions.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

Chad Granum L<exodist7@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2013 Chad Granum

Fennec is free software; Standard perl license (GPL and Artistic).

Fennec is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the license for more details.
