=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Math::Formula::Config - load/save formulas to file

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Math::Formula::Config is extended by
   Math::Formula::Config::INI
   Math::Formula::Config::JSON
   Math::Formula::Config::YAML

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $saver = Math::Formula::Config::YAML->new(directory => $dir);
  $saver->save($context);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The extensions of this module can be used to export and import
sets of expressions to and from a program.

The following serialization formats are supported:

=over 4

=item * JSON L<Math::Formula::Config::JSON|Math::Formula::Config::JSON> (save)

=item * YAML L<Math::Formula::Config::YAML|Math::Formula::Config::YAML> (save)

=item * INI  L<Math::Formula::Config::INI|Math::Formula::Config::INI>  (save and load)

=back

At the moment, B<loading is not generally supported>: it produces only satisfactory
results for INI, but improvements are under way.  That implementation will
certainly impact the output format.  The current version is ment for studying.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Math::Formula::Config-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option   --Default
  directory  <required>

=over 2

=item directory => DIRECTORY

In this directory, the output files will be made.  For each context (fragment),
a separate file is made.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<directory>()

When the configuration files will be written, and are read.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<path_for>($file)

Constructs a filename, based on the configured L<directory()|Math::Formula::Config/"Attributes">, the context's name,
and the usual filename extensions.

=back

=head2 Actions

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<load>($name, %options)

Load a L<Math::Formula::Context|Math::Formula::Context> for an ini file.

 -Option  --Default
  filename  <directory/$name.ini>

=over 2

=item filename => FILENAME

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<save>($context, %args)

Serialize the $context into a file as storage or to be editted by hand.
This is a usefull method when default configuration templates need to
be generated.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Math-Formula distribution version 0.14,
built on February 28, 2023. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2023 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

