=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Math::Formula::Context - Calculation context, pile of expressions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $context = Math::Formula::Context->new();
  $context->add({
    event       => \'Wedding',
    diner_start => '19:30:00',
    door_open   => 'dinner_start - PT1H30',
  });
  print $context->value('door_open');  # 18:00:00

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Like in web template systems, evaluation of expressions can be effected by the
computation context which contains values.  Thise Context object manages these
values; in this case, it runs the right expressions.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Math::Formula::Context-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

Many of the %options make sense when this context is reloaded for file.

 -Option          --Default
  formula           []
  lead_expressions  ''

=over 2

=item formula => $form|ARRAY

One or more formula, passed to L<add()|Math::Formula::Context/"Formula and Fragment management">.

=item lead_expressions => ''|STRING

Read section L</"Keep strings apart from expressions"> below.  When a blank string,
you will need to put (single or double) quotes around your strings within your strings,
or pass a SCALAR reference.  But that may be changed.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<lead_expressions>()

Returns the string which needs to be prepended to each of the formulas
which are added to the context.  When an empty string (the default),
formulas have no identification which distinguishes them from string.  In that case,
be sure to pass strings as references.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<name>()

Contexts are required to have a name.  Usually, this is the name of the fragment as
well.

=back

=head2 Fragment (this context) attributes

Basic data types usually have attributes (string C<length>), which operator on the type
to produce some fact.  The fragment type (which manages Context objects), however,
cannot distinguish between attributes and formula names: both use the dot (C<.>)
operator.  Therefore, all context attributes will start with C<ctx_>.

The following attributes are currently defined:

  ctx_name        MF::STRING    same as $context->name
  ctx_version     MF::STRING    optional version of the context data
  ctx_created     MF::DATETIME  initial creation of this context data
  ctx_updated     MF::DATETIME  last save of this context data
  ctx_mf_version  MF::STRING    Math::Formula version, useful for read/save

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<attribute>($name)

=back

=head2 Formula and Fragment management

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<add>(LIST)

Add one or more items to the context.

When a LIST is used and the first argument is a name, then the data is
used to create a $formula or fragment (when the name starts with a '#').  

Otherwise, the LIST is a sequence of prepared formulas and fragments,
or a HASH with 

example: :

  $context->add(wakeup => '07:00:00', returns => 'MF::TIME');
  $context->add(fruit  => \'apple', returns => 'MF::TIME');
  
  my $form = Math::Formula->new(wakeup => '07:00:00', returns => 'MF::TIME');
  $context->add($form, @more_forms, @fragments, @hashes);
  
  my %library = (
    breakfast => 'wakeup + P2H',
	to_work   => 'PT10M',    # mind the 'T': minutes not months
    work      => [ 'breakfast + to_work', returns => 'MF::TIME' ],
	#filesys  => $fragment,
  );
  $context->add($form, \%library, $frag);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addFormula>(LIST)

Add a single formula to this context.  The formula is returned.

example: of addFormula

Only the 3rd and 4th line of the examples below are affected by C<new(lead_expresssions)>:
only in those cases it is unclear whether we speak about a STRING or an expression.  But,
inconveniently, those are popular choices.

  $context->addFormula($form);            # already created somewhere else
  $context->addFormula(wakeup => $form);  # register under a (different) name
  $context->addFormula(wakeup => '07:00:00');      # influenced by lead_expressions
  $context->addFormula(wakeup => [ '07:00:00' ]);  # influenced by lead_expressions
  $context->addFormula(wakeup => '07:00:00', returns => 'MF::TIME');
  $context->addFormula(wakeup => [ '07:00:00', returns => 'MF::TIME' ]);
  $context->addFormula(wakeup => sub { '07:00:00' }, returns => 'MF::TIME' ]);
  $context->addFormula(wakeup => MF::TIME->new('07:00:00'));
  $context->addFormula(wakeup => \'early');

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addFragment>( [$name], $fragment )

A $fragment is simply a different Context.  Fragments are addressed via the '#'
operator.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<formula>($name)

Returns the formula with this specified name.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fragment>($name)

Returns the fragment (context) with $name.  This is not sufficient to switch
between contexts, which is done during execution.

=back

=head2 Runtime

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<capture>($index)

Returns the value of a capture as STRING, when it exists.  The C<$index> starts at
zero, where the capture indicators start at one.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<evaluate>($name, %options)

Evaluate the expresion with the $name.  Returns a types object, or C<undef>
when not found.  The %options are passed to L<Math::Formula::evaluate()|Math::Formula/"Running">.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<run>($expression, %options)

Singleshot an expression: the expression will be run in this context but
not get a name.  A temporary L<Math::Formula|Math::Formula> object is created and
later destroyed.  The %options are passed to L<Math::Formula::evaluate()|Math::Formula/"Running">.

 -Option--Default
  name    <caller's filename and linenumber>

=over 2

=item name => $name

The name may appear in error messages.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<setCaptures>(\@strings)

See the boolean operator C<< -> >>, used in combination with regular expression
match which captures fragments of a string.  On the right side of this arrow,
you may use C<$1>, C<$2>, etc as strings representing parts of the matched
expression.  This method sets those strings when the arrow operator is applied.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<value>($expression, %options)

First run the $expression, then return the value of the returned type object.
All options are passed to L<run()|Math::Formula::Context/"Runtime">.

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head2 Keep strings apart from expressions

One serious complication in combining various kinds of data in strings, is
expressing the distinction between strings and the other things.  Strings
can contain any kind of text, and hence may look totally equivalent
to the other things.  Therefore, you will need some kind of encoding,
which can be selected with L<new(lead_expressions)|Math::Formula::Context/"Constructors">.

When C<lead_expressions> is the empty string (default), then expressions have no
leading flag, so the following can be used:

   text_field => \"string"
   text_field => \'string'
   text_field => \$string
   text_field => '"string"'
   text_field => "'string'"
   expr_field => '1 + 2 * 3'

But C<lead_expressions> can be anything.  For instance, easy to remember is C<=>. In
that case, the added data can look like

   text_field => \"string"
   text_field => \'string'
   text_field => \$string
   text_field => "string"
   text_field => 'string'
   text_field => $string       <-- unsafe?
   expr_field => '= 1 + 2 * 3'

Of course, this introduces the security risk in the C<$string> case, which might
carry a C<=> by accident.  So: although useable, refrain from using that form
unless you are really, really sure this can never be confused.

Other suggestions for C<lead_expressions> are C<+> or C<expr: >.  Any constant string
will do.

=head2 Creating an interface to an object (fragment)

For safity reasons, the formulars can not directly call methods on data
objects, but need to use a well defined interface which hides the internals
of your program.  Some (Perl) people call this "inside-out objects".

With introspection, it would be quite simple to offer access to, for instance,
a DateTime object which implements the DATETIME logic.  This would, however,
open a pit full of security and compatibility worms.  So: the DATETIME object
will only offer a small set of B<attributes>, which produce results also
provided by other time computing libraries.

The way to create an interface looks: (first the long version)

  use Math::Formula::Type;
  my $object    = ...something in the program ...;
  sub handle_size($$%)
  {   my ($context, $expr, %args) = @_;
      MF::INTEGER->new($object->compute_the_size);
  }

  my $name      = $object->name;  # f.i. "file"
  my $interface = Math::Formala::Context->new(name => $name);
  $interface->addAttribute(size => \&handle_size);
  $context->addFragment($interface);

  my $expr   = Math::Formula->new(allocate => '#file.size * 10k');
  my $result = $expr->evaluate($context, expect => 'MF::INTEGER');
  print $result->value;

Of course, there are various simplifications possible, when the calculations
are not too complex:

  my ($dir, $filename) = (..., ...);
  my $fragment = Math::Formula::Context->new(
    name     => 'file',
    formulas => {
      name     => \$filename,
      size     => sub { MF::INTEGER->new(-s $filename) },
      path     => sub { \File::Spec->catfile($dir, $filename) },
      is_image => 'name =~ "*.{jpg,png,gif}"',
      π        => MF::FLOAT->new(undef, 3.14),    # constant
    });
  $context->addFragment($fragment);
  $context->addFormula(allocate => '#file.size * 10k');
  print $context->value('#file.allocate');

In above example, the return type of the CODE for C<size> is explicit: this is
the fastest and safest way to return data.  However, it can also be guessed:

  size     => sub { -s $filename },

For clarity: the three syntaxes:

  .ctx_name       an attribute to the context
  allocate        a formula in the context
  allocate.abs    an attribute of the expression result
  #file           interface to an object, registered in the context
  #file.size      an attribute to an object
  #filesys.file(name).size   file(name) produces an object

=head2 Aliasing

It is possible to produce an alias formula to hide or simplify the fragment.
This also works for formulas and attributes!

  fs   => '#filesys'         # alias fragment
  dt   => '#system#datetime' # alias nested fragments
  size => '"abc".size'       # alias attribute
  now  => 'dt.now'           # alias formula

=head2 CODE as expression

It should be the common practice to use strings as expressions.  Those strings get
tokenized and evaluated.  However, when you need calculations which are not offered
by this module, or need connections to objects (see fragments in L<Math::Formula::Context|Math::Formula::Context>),
then you will need CODE references as expression.

The CODE reference returns either an B<explicit type> or a guessed type.
When the type is explicit, you MUST decide whether the data is a "token"
(in normalized string representation) or a "value" (internal data format).

Math::Formula's internal types are bless ARRAYs with (usually) two fields.
The first is the I<token>, the second the I<value>.  When the token is
known, but the value is needed, the token will get parsed.  And vice
versa: the token can be generated from the value when required.

Some examples of explicit return object generation:

  my $int = MF::INTEGER->new("3k", undef);  # token 3k given
  my $int = MF::INTEGER->new("3k");         # same
  say $int->token;  -> 3k
  say $int->value;  -> 3000                 # now, conversion was run

  my $dt  = DateTime->now;
  my $now = MF::DATETIME->new(undef, $dt);  # value is given
  my $dt2 = $now->value;                    # returns $dt
  say $now->token;  -> 2032-02-24T10:00:15+0100

See L<Math::Formula::Type|Math::Formula::Type> for detailed explanation for the types which
can be returned.  These are the types with examples for tokens and values:

  MF::BOOLEAN   'true'            1        # anything !=0 is true
  MF::STRING    '"tic"'           'tic'    # the token has quotes!
  MF::STRING    \'tic' \$string   'tic'    # no quotes with SCALAR ref
  MF::INTEGER   '42'              42
  MF::FLOAT     '3.14'            3.14
  MF::DATETIME  '2023-...T09:...' DateTime-object
  MF::DATE      '2023-02-24+0100' DateTime-object
  MF::TIME      '09:12:24'        some HASH
  MF::TIMEZONE  '+0200'           in seconds
  MF::DURATION  'P3Y2MT12M'       DateTime::Duration-object
  MF::NAME      'tac'             'tac'
  MF::PATTERN   '"*c"'            qr/^.*c$/ # like understands MF::REGEXP
  MF::REGEXP    '"a.b"'  qr//     qr/^a.b$/
  MF::FRAGMENT  'toe'             ::Context-object

When you decide to be lazy, Math::Formula will attempt to auto-detect the
type.  This is helped by the fact that operator will cast types which they
need, for instance MF::FLOAT to MF::INTEGER or the reverse.

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Math-Formula distribution version 0.15,
built on March 06, 2023. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2023 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

