=head1 NAME

Text::UPF - (UPF is a Population Format) a module for auto-populating text.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

use Text::UPF;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

UPF stands for UPF is a Population Format.
This module provides yet annother way to populate text templates (aka 'form') with dynamic data. 
Additionally, this module provides support for caching forms, loading them from a 
database (via DBTools), or loading them from a file. Additionally, you may pass an arbitrary
string to be populated. If you plan to load templates from a database, you must also use the 
Config::Framework module to handle your username and password for database access.

=head1 FORM FORMAT

UPF defines "pop" tags in the text of your form (aka 'template'), which are replaced with dynamic 
data when the text is populated. Here is a quick example to give you a taste of the flavor:

	"Hello customer, today is <pop>today</pop>"

As you can probably surmise, <pop>today</pop> is replaced with the current date. 
The "pop tag" has pretty much three parts:

	"tagin"		=> "<pop>"
	"payload"	=> "today"
	"tagout"	=> "</pop>"

Both the "tagin" and "tagout" can be defined to be something other than <pop> and </pop> upon
instantiation. (see method: new). The "payload" can be one of two things a "method" or "data".

=over

=item PAYLOAD is Data

=back

If the payload is data, that pretty much means it's just a hash key. The "Populate" method
allows you to supply a hash reference on the 'Data' option (see method: Populate). If the
payload string exists as a hash key under the 'Data' option, then the pop tag is simply 
replaced with the hash value under that key. That's a lot less complicated than it sounds.
Here's a quick example to illustrate:


$string = $UPFObject->Populate(
    Text	=> "hello <pop>customer</pop> today is <pop>today</pop>",
    Data	=> { 'customer'	=> "Cirius Cybernetics" }
) || die ("can't populate: $UPFObject->{'errstr'}\n");


This would produce the following value of $string:

"Hello Cirius Cybernetics today is Tue Oct 22, 2002."

In this manner you can populate a template with the data you define on the hash reference.
Handy stuff, indeed. ;-)

=over

=item PAYLOAD is Method

=back

If the payload dosen't match any hash keys to data, then UPF will attempt to execute a
subroutine in it's own namespace with the same name. The pop tag will be replaced with the 
value returned by the subroutine. An example of a pop tag which calls a method is:
<pop>today</pop>, 'today' is actually the name of a subroutine which returns the current 
date. Optionally, you can supply arguments to methods, using curly brackets. Again, here's an
example: 
<pop>today{format => "dd/mm/yy"}</pop>
This sends the string "dd/mm/yy" to the subroutine 'today' on the 'format' option.


=head1 To Do:

    Write Test Programs for 'make test'.
    
    Add user defined callbacks for specified methods.
    
    Add optional time formats for nbd and today
    
    
=head1	Methods

=head1	new (contructor)

=head2 Notes

This is the object constructor. Upon failure, the method will return the undef value, and an 
error message will be written to $Text::UPF::errstr.

=head2 Synopsis

 $Object = Text::UPF::New([options]) || die $Text::UPF::errstr, "\n";

=head2 Options

=over

=item	tagin

An alternate string may be specified to serve as the "tagin" on this option. If not defined,
the value will default to "<pop>"

=item	tagout

An alternate string may be specified to serve as the "tagout" on this option. If not defined,
the value will default to "</pop>"

=item	'Form View'

If you intend to retrieve forms (aka 'templates') from a database, this is the table or view
to retrieve the form text from. If this option is undefined, it defaults to the value given 
durring the Makefile.PL. Don't worry about it if you aren't going to 

=item	'Form Name'

This is the field in the table or view defined by 'Form View' which contains the name of the 
form. This defaults to the answer given durring Makefile.PL unless otherwise specified at 
instantiation. Don't worry about this unless you intend to retrieve forms from a database.


=item	'Form Text'

This is the field in the table or view defined by 'Form View' which contains the text of the 
form. This defaults to the answer given durring Makefile.PL unless otherwide specified at 
instantiation. Don't worry about this unless you intend to retrieve forms from a database.

=item	'Columns'

Wrap line lengths in populated text to this number of columns. If left undefined at instantiation,
this defaults to the value given durring Makefile.PL.

=item	'DiscQuote'

Quote the disclaimer text with these charachters at the front of each line. (See 'Disclaimer' below)

=item	'Disclaimer'

If you build this module to be able to retrieve forms from a database, you can optionally define
a special form in the database to be used as a 'disclaimer'. I call it a 'disclaimer' because this
arose from a need to tack a special disclaimer to the top of all customer communications at my job.
In practicality, all this means is that you can easily populate the 'disclaimer', and include it 
in other forms by using the <pop>Disclaimer</pop> tag in the target form. You can optionally 
'quote' the disclaimer by using the 'DiscQuote' option. If 'Disclaimer' is undefined at instantiation
then the value defaults to the answer given durring Makefile.PL. Here's a quick example:

if my 'disclaimer' was defined to be:
"Hi <pop>name</pop> the views in this here document are not bonifide. you shoulda r-u-n-n-o-f-t."

and my form was defined to be:
<pop>Disclaimer</pop>

Dear <pop>Customer</pop>:
This is to inform you that as of <pop>today</pop>, our 
software bites the wax llama.
Please respond by <pop>nbd</pop>

and my data was defined to be
'Customer'	=> "Cirius Cybernetics"
'name'		=> "Zaphod Beeblebrox"

and I defined 'DiscQuote' to be "** ", then this is what I would get when i populated the form:

** Hi Zaphod Beeblebrox the views in this here document are not bonifide.
** you shoulda r-u-n-n-o-f-t.

Dear Cirius Cybernetics:
This is to inform you that as of Wed Oct 23, 2002, our
software bites the wax llama.
Please respond by Thu Oct 24, 2002.

=back

=head1	Populate

=head2	Synopsis

$text = $Object->Populate([options]) || die $Object->{'errstr'};

=head2 Notes

This is the bit that actually populates things for you.

=head2 Options

=over

=item	Text

An arbirary string of text to be populated can be supplied on this option. This option supercedes
File and Form. That is to say, that if for some reason you defined, Text, File, and Form, Populate 
would chose to use Text.


=item	Form

This is the name of the form to be retrieved from the database. Naturally, you can't use this if
you didn't build the module to retrieve forms from a database. Well, actually, you COULD TRY to 
use it, but then it wouldn't work, and you would get lots of errors ;-) This is second in the pecking
order. Which is to say, that Text must be undefined to use Form, and that if both Form and File are
defined, Populate will chose to use Form.

=item	File

This is the path and name of a file to load a form from. This option is last in the pecking order
so to speak. That is to saym that if Text and Form must be undefined for File to be used.

=item	Data

this is a hash reference, containing data items to insert in the Form specified by Form, File, or
Text (see above). Each key in the hash should correspond to one of the pop tags in the document, 
the associated value, of course, would be the data to replcace the pop tage with. (see above).

=back


=head1	Wants

=head2	Synopsis

my $field_list = $Object->Wants(Form => $form_name) || die $Object->{'errstr'};

=head2	Notes

this method returns an array reference containing the list of data fields required by pop tags
in the given document. The document can be specified in any of the three ways available to the
Populate method (Text, Form, or File).

=head2	Options

=over

=item	Text

specify a text string containing pop tags. (see Populate method for more info)

=item	Form

specify a form name to be retrieved from the database. (see Populate method for more info)

=item	File

specify a file to read a form letter from. (see Populate method for more info)

=back


=head1	Destroy

=head2	Synopsis

$Object->Destroy();

=head2 Notes

This is pretty much pointless unless you have been retrieving forms from a databse, in which case,
we log out of the database gracefully before consigning the object to oblivion. If you didn't 
get anything from a databse, then the object is simply consigned to the briney deep.


=head1	nbd

=head2	Synopsis

<pop>nbd</pop>

=head2 	Notes

This is a built in population method, which returns the next business day from the current date.
This version only skips weekends. In future versions I hope to be able to define a configuration
file in which you can specify holidays and such. As well, I hope to add the ability to define a date
format (i.e. mm/dd/yy, etc).


=head1	today

=head2	Synopsis

<pop>today</pop>

=head2	Notes

This is a built in population method, which returns the current date. In fiture releases I hope to 
add the ability to define a date format (i.e. mm/dd/yy, etc).


=head1	ShowDiary

=head2	Synopsis

<pop>ShowDiary{[options]}</pop>
<pop>ShowDiary{Mode => "html", Data => "Diary"}</pop>

=head2	Notes

This is a built in population method, which produces formatted output of remedy diary fields in
either plain text or html. The diary is passed in as an array reference in the format produced 
by either DBTools::ParseDiary or ARS::GetField.

=head2	Options

=over

=item	directive

This is the name of the hash key under Data which contains the array reference containing the diary
information.

=item	Mode

Valid values are "html" or "text". This controls the output format.

=back

=head1	Disclaimer

=head2	Synopsis

<pop>Disclaimer</pop>

=head2	Notes

This is a built in population method, which includes the special form from the database and
optionally quotes it with the DiscQuote charachters. See above.


=head1 Author: 

    Andrew N. Hicox	<andrew@hicox.com>
    http://www.hicox.com

=cut