=head1 NAME

README.Web - [Web Interface] How to install SenseClusters Web interface

=head1 Steps for setting up the web-interface for SenseClusters

=over

=item 1.

Copy the directory SC-cgi to the web-server's cgi directory.

=item 2.

Copy the directory SC-htdocs to the web-servers html directory.


=item 3.

The config.txt file contains sample settings please update each of 
setting with appropriate values:
 1. PATH: set to the values of the environment variable PATH
 2. PERL5LIB: set to the values of the environment variable PERL5LIB
 3. SC-cgi: specify the complete path to the SC-cgi directory placed under the web-server
 4. SC-htdocs: specify the complete path to the SC-htdocs directory placed under the web-server
 5. cgi: specify the name of the cgi directory for the web-server (eg: "cgi-bin" for apache2)

=item 4.

Several output files are created by the web-interface for which it 
requires read, write and execute permissions.
Thus make sure that "others" user level has read-write-execute 
access till the SC-cgi/user_data and SC-htdocs directory. 
eg: all the directories in this path 
usr/local/apache2/cgi-bin/SC-cgi/user_data should have 
read-write-execute permissions.

=item 5

Install L<XML::Simple>

This module is used by callwrap.pl to verify if a created xml file
is well-formed.

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/XML-Simple/>

If you have supervisor access on your machine, you can install
this module nearly automatically via:

 perl -MCPAN -e shell
 > install XML::Simple 

If you do not have supervisor access, you will need to install this
module locally as described by the INSTALL document under the main
directory of the distribution.

=item 6

For the automatic generation of plots for various cluster stopping measures
please make sure that each of the following utilities is installed on your system:
 1. gnuplot (Version 4.0 patchlevel 0)
 2. latex (TeX (Web2C 7.3.1))
 3. ps2pdf 

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

 Anagha Kulkarni, Carnegie-Mellon University

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth
 tpederse at d.umn.edu

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2008, Ted Pedersen and Anagha Kulkarni

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.

Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on 
the web at L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in 
this distribution as FDL.txt.

=cut
