
=head1 NAME

Net::SMTP::OneLiner - extension that pollutes the local namespace with a send_mail() sub that sends mail

=head1 A brief example

    use Net::SMTP::OneLiner;

    my $from = 'me@mydomain.tld';
    my $to   = [qw(some@targ.tld one@targ.tld)];
    my $cc   = [qw(some@targ.tld one@targ.tld)];
    my $bcc  = [qw(some@targ.tld one@targ.tld)];
    my $subj = "The Subject";
    my $msg  = "The Message";
    my $labl = { 'me@mydomain.tld' => "My RealName", 'one@targ.tld' => "Their realname" };

     
    # Examples:

    send_mail($from, $to, $subj, $msg);
    send_mail($from, $to, $subj, $msg, $cc);
    send_mail($from, $to, $subj, $msg, undef, $bcc);
    send_mail($from, $to, $subj, $msg, $cc, $bcc, $labl);
    send_mail($from, $to, $subj, $msg, undef, undef, $labl);

    send_mail('me@domain', ['you@domain'], "heyya there", "supz!?!?");

    # The simplest way:

    send_mail('me@domain', 'you@domain', "heyya there", "supz!?!?");

    # At this time, the mail server, must be the localhost.

=head1 VARS

Hirosi Taguti requested a method for changing the SMTP host.  I provided that and a few other variables.
The values listed are the defaults.

=head2 $Net::SMTP::OneLiner::HOSTNAME = "localhost"

The hostname of the SMTP server you wish to use.  This takes all the arguments
you'd expect a IO::Socket::INET object to take.
 
=head2 $Net::SMTP::OneLiner::PORT = 25;

The port on the smtp server you wish to use.  If you use this, do not set the
port in $Net::SMTP::OneLiner::HOSTNAME or you will create bugs for yourself.

=head2 $Net::SMTP::OneLiner::EHLO = "localhost"

The hostname you wish to send in the EHLO greeting.  It normally doesn't matter what you put here -- even if you change the
HOSTNAME.

=head2 $Net::SMTP::OneLiner::DEBUG = 0

If this is set to true, OneLiner will tell Net::SMTP to spew forth many lines of debugging info.

=head2 $Net::SMTP::OneLiner::TIMEO = 20

Use this to change the communication timeout (in seconds) with the SMTP host.

=head2 $Net::SMTP::OneLiner::CONTENT_TYPE = "text/plain; charset=UTF-8"

Use this to change the content type (e.g. text/html).  This only changes the header and does not alter the message in any way.

=head2 $Net::SMTP::OneLiner::TRANSFER_ENCODING  = "quoted-printable"

Use this to change the transfer encoding.  This only changes the header and does not alter the message in any way.

=head1 Bugs

Please report bugs immediately!  The author has not tested this
module worth a lick -- expecting it to work just fine.  If this
is not the case, he would like to know, so he can fix it.

=head2 Bad BCC: Bug

BCC: recipients were not working at all!  Thanks to Stephen Thomas for finding this bug.

=head1 AUTHOR

Paul Miller C<< <jettero@cpan.org> >>

I am using this software in my own projects...  If you find bugs, please
please please let me know. :) Actually, let me know if you find it handy at
all.  Half the fun of releasing this stuff is knowing that people use it.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2007 Paul Miller -- LGPL [attached]

=head1 SEE ALSO

perl(1), L<Net::SMTP>
