=head1 NAME

Class::MakeMethods::Docs::ReadMe - About Class::MakeMethods 


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is an updated release of Class::MakeMethods, for distribution through
CPAN.

This distribution includes the Class::MakeMethods::Template and
Class::MakeMethods::Emulator modules which were packaged sepearately in some
previous releases.


=head1 MOTIVATION

By passing arguments to "use Class::MakeMethods ..." statements, you can
select from a library of hundreds of common types of methods, which are
dynamically installed as subroutines in your module, simplifying the code
for your class.


=head1 DISTRIBUTION AND INSTALLATION

=head2 Version

This is Class::MakeMethods v1.010, intended for general use.

This module's CPAN registration should read:

  Name            DSLIP  Description
  --------------  -----  ---------------------------------------------
  Class::
  ::MakeMethods   RdpOp  Generate common types of methods

=head2 Prerequisites

In general, this module should work with Perl 5.003 or later,
without requring any modules beyond the core Perl distribution.

The following optional feature may not be available on some platforms:

=over 4

=item *

Class::MakeMethods::Attribute: The C<:MakeMethod> subroutine
attribute requires Perl version 5.6 and the Attribute::Handlers
module (from CPAN).

=item *

Class::MakeMethods::Template C<--lvalue>: The lvalue modifier
provided by the Template generator subclasses will only work on
Perl version 5.6 or later.

=item *

Some third-party tests used to check the compliance of Emulator modules
require Test::More and will be automatically skipped on machines which do
not have this installed.

=back

=head2 Installation

You should be able to install this module using the CPAN shell interface:

  perl -MCPAN -e 'install Class::MakeMethods'

Alternately, you may retrieve this package from CPAN or from the author's site:

=over 2

=item *

http://search.cpan.org/~evo/

=item *

http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-authors/id/E/EV/EVO

=item *

http://www.evoscript.org/Class-MakeMethods/dist/

=back

After downloading the distribution, follow the normal procedure to unpack and install it, using the commands shown below or their local equivalents on your system:

  tar xzf Class-MakeMethods-*.tar.gz
  cd Class-MakeMethods-*
  perl Makefile.PL
  make test && sudo make install

Thanks to the kind generosity of other members of the Perl community,
this distribution is also available repackaged in the FreeBSD
"ports" and Linux RPM formats. This may simplify installation for
some users, but be aware that these alternate distributions may
lag a few versions behind the latest release on CPAN.

=over 2

=item *

http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/ports.cgi?query=Class-MakeMethods

=item *

http://www.rpmfind.net/linux/rpm2html/search.php?query=perl-Class-MakeMethods

=back

=head2 Tested Platforms

This release has been tested succesfully on the following platforms:

  5.6.1 on darwin

Earlier releases have also tested OK on the following platforms:

  IP30-R12000-irix
  OpenBSD.i386-openbsd
  i386-freebsd / i386-freebsd-thread-multi
  i386-linux
  i386-netbsd / i386-netbsd-thread-multi
  i586-linux / i586-linux-thread-multi-ld
  i686-linux / i686-pld-linux-thread-multi
  ia64-linux
  ppc-linux
  sparc-linux
  sparc-netbsd
  sun4-solaris

Some earlier versions failed to "make test" on MSWin32, although
a forced installation would still work; that problem should be
fixed in the most recent releases.

You may also review the current test results from CPAN-Testers:

=over 2

=item *

http://testers.cpan.org/show/Class-MakeMethods.html

=back

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Release Status

This module has been used in a variety of production systems and
has been available on CPAN for over two years, with several other
distributions dependant on it, so it would be fair to say that it
is fully released. 

However, while the commonly-used portions are well tested, some of
the more obscure combinations of options are less so, and new bug
reports do trickle in occasionally. If you do encounter any problems,
please inform the author and I'll endeavor to patch them promptly.

Additional features have been outlined for future development, but
the intent is support these by adding more options to the declaration
interface, while maintaining backward compatibility.

See L<Class::MakeMethods::Docs::ToDo> for other outstanding issues
and development plans.

=head2 Support

If you have questions or feedback about this module, please feel
free to contact the author at the below address. Although there is
no formal support program, I do attempt to answer email promptly. 

I would be particularly interested in any suggestions towards
improving the documentation and correcting any Perl-version or platform
dependencies, as well as general feedback and suggested additions.

Bug reports that contain a failing test case are greatly appreciated,
and suggested patches will be promptly considered for inclusion in
future releases.

To report bugs via the CPAN web tracking system, go to 
C<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Class-MakeMethods> or send mail 
to C<Dist=Class-MakeMethods#rt.cpan.org>, replacing C<#> with C<@>.

=head2 Community

If you've found this module useful or have feedback about your
experience with it, consider sharing your opinion with other Perl
users by posting your comment to CPAN's ratings system:

=over 2

=item *

http://cpanratings.perl.org/rate/?distribution=Class-MakeMethods

=back

For more general discussion, you may wish to post a message on PerlMonks or the comp.lang.perl.misc newsgroup:

=over 2

=item *

http://www.perlmonks.org/index.pl?node=Seekers%20of%20Perl%20Wisdom

=item *

http://groups.google.com/groups?group=comp.lang.perl.misc

=back


=head1 CREDITS AND COPYRIGHT

=head2 Author

Developed by Matthew Simon Cavalletto at Evolution Softworks. 
More free Perl software is available at C<www.evoscript.org>.

You may contact the author directly at C<evo@cpan.org> or C<simonm@cavalletto.org>. 

=head2 Feedback and Suggestions 

Thanks to the following people for bug reports, suggestions, and other feedback:

  Martyn J. Pearce
  Scott R. Godin
  Ron Savage
  Jay Lawrence
  Adam Spiers
  Malcolm Cook
  Terrence Brannon
  Jared Rhine
  Peter Chen
  Mike Castle

=head2 Source Material

This package was inspired by the ground-breaking original closure-generating method maker module:

  Class::MethodMaker, by Peter Seibel.

Additional inspiration, cool tricks, and blocks of useful code for
this module were extracted from the following CPAN modules:

  Class::Accessor, by Michael G Schwern 
  Class::Contract, by Damian Conway
  Class::SelfMethods, by Toby Everett

=head2 Copyright

Copyright 2002, 2003 Matthew Simon Cavalletto. 

Portions copyright 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 Evolution Online Systems, Inc.

Based on Class::MethodMaker, originally developed by Peter Seibel. Portions Copyright 1996 Organic Online. Portions Copyright 2000 Martyn J. Pearce. 

Class::MakeMethods::Emulator::accessors is based on accessors. Portions by Steve Purkis.

Class::MakeMethods::Emulator::AccessorFast is based on Class::Accessor::Fast. Portions Copyright 2000 Michael G Schwern.

Class::MakeMethods::Emulator::Inheritable is based on Class::Data::Inheritable. Portions Copyright 2000 Damian Conway and Michael G Schwern.

Class::MakeMethods::Emulator::mcoder is based on mcoder. Portions Copyright 2003 by Salvador Fandiño.

Class::MakeMethods::Emulator::Singleton is based on Class::Singleton, by Andy Wardley. Portions Copyright 1998 Canon Research Centre Europe Ltd. 

Class::MakeMethods::Utility::Ref is based on Ref.pm. Portions Copyright 1994 David Muir Sharnoff.

=head2 License

You may use, modify, and distribute this software under the same terms as Perl.

=cut
