package Sah::Manual::Reference::Schema::Examples::PropertyAttributeIndex; # just to make podweaver happy

# AUTHORITY
# DATE
our $DIST = 'Sah-Manual'; # DIST
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Alphabetical list of properties/attributes used in example specification of Sah schema

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Sah::Manual::Reference::Schema::Examples::PropertyAttributeIndex - Alphabetical list of properties/attributes used in example specification of Sah schema

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.002 of Sah::Manual::Reference::Schema::Examples::PropertyAttributeIndex (from Perl distribution Sah-Manual), released on 2021-07-28.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head1 INDEX

=head2 description

Str. From L<DefHash>.

=head2 summary

Str. From L<DefHash>.

=head2 tags

Str. From L<DefHash>.

=head2 valid

Bool. Whether the L</value> validates.

=head2 value

Any.

=head1 INDEX (DEPRECATED)

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Sah-Manual>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Sah-Manual>.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Sah-Manual>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Other C<Sah::Manual::Reference::**::PropertyAttributeIndex> pages.

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2021 by perlancar@cpan.org.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
