package Perinci::Access::Manual::Examples; # just to make podweaver happy

# DATE
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Collection of examples

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Perinci::Access::Manual::Examples - Collection of examples

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.45 of Perinci::Access::Manual::Examples (from Perl distribution Perinci-Access), released on 2017-07-10.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 (Client) Simplest usage

=head2 (Client) Meta action

=head2 (Client) List action

=head2 (Client) (HTTP)

=head2 (Client) (Pipe)

=head2 (Client) (Socket)

=head2 (Client) (Server) Dealing with binary data

The choice as JSON as the network transport protocol (because it is the lowest
common denominator across languages like JavaScript, PHP, Python, Ruby, Perl)
makes dealing with binary data requires an extra step or two. The Riap client
libraries are equipped with some features to make this simpler and more
convenient.

First, to make a function that accepts binary data (in its arguments), you need
to specify the argument type as C<buf>. To return binary data as result, you
need to specify C<result>'s schema type as C<buf>. Example:

 package MyLib;
 our %SPEC;
 $SPEC{gzip} = {
     v => 1.1,
     summary => 'Gzip some data',
     args => {
         data => {
             summary => 'Data to compress',
             schema => 'buf*',
             req => 1,
         },
     },
 };
 sub gzip {
     require IO::Compress::Gzip;

     my %args = @_;
     my $compressed;
     IO::Compress::Gzip::gzip($args{data} => $compressed)
         or return [500, "Compression failed"];
     [200, "OK", $compressed];
 }

If you use this function via Riap in-process, there's nothing to worry about
since there is no round-trip to JSON. You can just:

 my $res = Perinci::Access->new->request(call => "/MyLib/gzip",
                                         {args=>{data=>"some data"}});

If you are using this function over HTTP or oher network protocol where JSON is
involved, you will need to encode the argument:

 use MIME::Base64;
 my $res = Perinci::Access->new(riap_version=>1.2)->
               request(call => "http://localhost:5000/api/MyLib/gzip",
                       {args=>{"data:base64"=>encode_base64("some data","")}});

Note that you also need to specify Riap version 1.2, as this is the first
version that specifies argument encoding. Also note that the result returned by
the server is actually base64-encoded to be safe to pass through JSON, e.g.:

 [200, "OK", "base64 data...", {"riap.v"=>1.2, "riap.result_encoding"=>"base64"}]

But the Riap client library decodes this automatically for you, so you don't
have to see it.

=head2 (Client) Debugging

=head2 (Server) (HTTP)

=head2 (Server) (Pipe)

=head2 (Server) Debugging

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Perinci-Access>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Perinci-Access>.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Perinci-Access>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Perinci::CmdLine::Manual>

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012 by perlancar@cpan.org.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
