package PDL::Opt::GLPK;

__END__

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

PDL::Opt::GLPK - PDL interface to the GNU Linear Programming Kit

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use PDL;
 use PDL::Opt::GLPK;

 glpk($c, $a, $b $lb, $ub, $ctype, $vtype, GLP_MAX,
	$xopt = null, $fopt = null, $status = null,
	$lambda = null, $redcosts = null, \%param);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides an interface to GLPK, the GNU Linear Programming
Kit.
The interface was ported from Octave and mimics its GLPK interface.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 glpk

 Signature (c(m); a(m, n); b(n); lb(m); ub(m); ctype(n); vtype(m);
	int sense; [o]xopt(m); [o]fopt(); [o]status(); [o]lambda(n);
	[o]redcosts(n); SV *param)

Solve a linear program using the GNU GLPK library.

The LP can be of the form

 [ min | max ] C'*x
 subject to

 A*x [ "=" | "<=" | ">=" ] b
   x >= LB
   x <= UB

=head3 Arguments

Input values:

=over

=item c

A ndarray containing the objective function coefficients.

=item a

A ndarray containing the constraints coefficients.
C<a> must be 2-d, though broadcasting over higher dimensions is possible
for other arguments.

The coefficients may be given as a L<PDL::CCS::Nd> sparse matrix as
well.

=item b

A ndarray containing the right-hand side value for each constraint
in the constraint matrix.

=item lb

A ndarray containing the lower bound on each of the variables.

=item ub

A ndarray containing the upper bound on each of the variables.

=item ctype

A ndarray containing the sense of each constraint in the
constraint matrix.
Each element of the array may be one of the following
values

=over

=item 1 (GLP_FR)

A free (unbounded) constraint (the constraint is ignored).

=item 2 (GLP_LO)

An inequality constraint with a lower bound.

=item 3 (GLP_UP)

An inequality constraint with an upper bound.

=item 4 (GLP_DB)

An inequality constraint with equal lower and upper bounds.

=item 5 (GLP_FX)

An equality constraint.

=back

=item vartype

A ndarray containing the types of the variables.

=over

=item 1 (GLP_CV)

A continuous variable.

=item 2 (GLP_IV)

An integer variable.

=item 3 (GLP_BV)

A binary variable.
Lower and upper bound are ignored and set to zero resp. one.

=back

=item sense

=over

=item 1 (GLP_MIN)

	Minimize the objective function.

=item 2 (GLP_MAX)

	Maximize the objective function.

=back

=item param (optional)

A hash reference with any of following keys used to define the behavior
of solver. Missing keys take on default values, so you
only need to set the values that you wish to change from the default.

Integer parameters:

=over

=item msglev (default: 1)

Level of messages output by solver routines:

=over

=item 0 (GLP_MSG_OFF)

No output.

=item 1 (GLP_MSG_ERR)

Error and warning messages only.

=item 2 (GLP_MSG_ON)

Normal output.

=item 3 (GLP_MSG_ALL)

Full output (includes informational messages).

=item 4 (GLP_MSG_DBG)

Debug output.

=back

=item scale (default: 16)

Scaling option. The values can be combined with the bitwise
OR operator and may be the following:

=over

=item 1 (GLP_SF_GM)

Geometric mean scaling.

=item 16 (GLP_SF_EQ)

Equilibration scaling.

=item 32 (GLP_SF_2N)

Round scale factors to power of two.

=item 64 (GLP_SF_SKIP)

Skip if problem is well scaled.

=back

Alternatively, a value of 128 (GLP_SF_AUTO) may be also spec-
ified, in which case the routine chooses the scaling options
automatically.

=item dual (default: 1)

Simplex method option:

=over

=item 1 (GLP_PRIMAL)

Use two-phase primal simplex.

=item 2 (GLP_DUALP)

Use two-phase dual simplex, and if it fails, switch
to the primal simplex.

=item 3 (GLP_DUAL)

Use two-phase dual simplex.

=back

=item price (default: 0x22)

Pricing option (for both primal and dual simplex):

=over

=item 0x11 (GLP_PT_STD)

Textbook pricing.

=item 0x22 (GLP_PT_PSE)

Steepest edge pricing.

=back

=item itlim (default: intmax)

Simplex iterations limit. It is decreased by one each time
when one simplex iteration has been performed, and reaching
zero value signals the solver to stop the search.

=item outfrq (default: 200)

Output frequency, in iterations. This parameter specifies how
frequently the solver sends information about the solution to
the standard output.

=item branch (default: 4)

Branching technique option (for MIP only):

=over

=item 1 (GLP_BR_FFV)

First fractional variable.

=item 2 (GLP_BR_LFV)

Last fractional variable.

=item 3 (GLP_BR_MFV)

Most fractional variable.

=item 4 (GLP_BR_DTH)

Heuristic by Driebeck and Tomlin.

=item 5 (GLP_BR_PCH)

Hybrid pseudocost heuristic.

=back

=item btrack (default: 4)

Backtracking technique option (for MIP only):

=over

=item 1 (GLP_BT_DFS)

Depth first search.

=item 2 (GLP_BT_BFS)

Breadth first search.

=item 3 (GLP_BT_BLB)

Best local bound.

=item 4 (GLP_BT_BPH)

Best projection heuristic.

=back

=item presol (default: 1)

If this flag is set, the simplex solver uses the built-in LP
presolver. Otherwise the LP presolver is not used.

=item lpsolver (default: 1)

Select which solver to use. If the problem is a MIP problem
this flag will be ignored.

=over

=item 1

Revised simplex method.

=item 2

Interior point method.

=back

=item rtest (default: 0x22)

Ratio test technique:

=over

=item 0x11 (GLP_RT_STD)

Standard ("textbook").

=item 0x22 (GLP_RT_HAR)

Harris’ two-pass ratio test.

=item 0x33 (GLP_RT_FLIP)

long-step (flip-flop) ratio test

=back

=item tmlim (default: intmax)

Searching time limit, in milliseconds.

=item outdly (default: 0)

Output delay, in seconds. This parameter specifies how long
the solver should delay sending information about the solution
to the standard output.

=item save_pb (default: 0)

If this parameter is nonzero, save a copy of the problem in
CPLEX LP format to a file as specified by the parameter C<save_fn>.

=item save_fn (default: C<"outpb.%d.lp">)

This is a format for the file name(s) the problem will be written to if
C<save_pb> is true.
The pattern shall contain a placeholder like C<%d>
that will be replaced with a sequence number.
This is required for broadcasting to prevent the file being overwritten.

=back

Real parameters:

=over

=item tolbnd (default: 1e-7)

Relative tolerance used to check if the current basic solution
is primal feasible. It is not recommended that you change
this parameter unless you have a detailed understanding of
its purpose.

=item toldj (default: 1e-7)

Absolute tolerance used to check if the current basic solution
is dual feasible. It is not recommended that you change this
parameter unless you have a detailed understanding of its
purpose.

=item tolpiv (default: 1e-10)

Relative tolerance used to choose eligible pivotal elements of
the simplex table. It is not recommended that you change
this parameter unless you have a detailed understanding of
its purpose.

=item objll (default: -INFINITY)

Lower limit of the objective function. If the objective function
reaches this limit and continues decreasing, the solver stops
the search. This parameter is used in the dual simplex method
only.

=item objul (default: INFINITY)

Upper limit of the objective function. If the objective function
reaches this limit and continues increasing, the solver stops
the search. This parameter is used in the dual simplex only.

=item tolint (default: 1e-5)

Relative tolerance used to check if the current basic solution
is integer feasible. It is not recommended that you change
this parameter unless you have a detailed understanding of
its purpose.

=item tolobj (default: 1e-7)

Relative tolerance used to check if the value of the objective
function is not better than in the best known integer feasi-
ble solution. It is not recommended that you change this
parameter unless you have a detailed understanding of its
purpose.

=back

=back

Output values:

=over

=item xopt

The optimizer (the value of the decision variables at the optimum).

=item fopt

The optimum value of the objective function.

=item lambda (optional)

Dual variables.

=item redcosts (optional)

Reduced Costs.

=item status Status of the optimization.

=over

=item 1 (GLP_UNDEF)

Solution status is undefined.

=item 2 (GLP_FEAS)

Solution is feasible.

=item 3 (GLP_INFEAS)

Solution is infeasible.

=item 4 (GLP_NOFEAS)

Problem has no feasible solution.

=item 5 (GLP_OPT)

Solution is optimal.

=item 6 (GLP_UNBND)

Problem has no unbounded solution.

=back

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 A standard case

A modified example from the GLPK documentation, with an extra variable
to avoid a square matrix:

 Maximize
  obj: + 10 x_1 + 6 x_2 + 4 x_3 - x_4

 Subject To
  r_1: + x_4 + x_3 + x_2 + x_1 <= 100
  r_2: + x_4 + 5 x_3 + 4 x_2 + 10 x_1 <= 600
  r_3: + x_4 + 6 x_3 + 2 x_2 + 2 x_1 <= 300

The solution is straightforward:

 use PDL;
 use PDL::Opt::GLPK;

 $a = pdl([[1, 1, 1, 1], [10, 4, 5, 1], [2, 2, 6, 1]]);
 $b = pdl([100, 600, 300]);
 $c = pdl([10, 6, 4, -1]);
 $lb = zeroes(4);
 $ub = inf(4);
 $ctype = pdl([GLP_UP, GLP_UP, GLP_UP]);
 $vtype = pdl([GLP_CV, GLP_CV, GLP_CV, GLP_CV]);

 glpk($c, $a, $b $lb, $ub, $ctype, $vtype, GLPX_MAX,
	$xopt = null, $fopt = null, $status = null);

 # $xopt:
 # [
 #   [ 33.333333  66.666667          0          0]
 # ]

 # $fopt:
 # [ 733.33333]

=head2 Broadcasting

Multiple problems on the same coefficients may be solved simultaneously.
Some care must be taken when all combinations of multiple arguments are
requested.

The base problem:

 Maximize
  obj: + y_1 + y_2 + y_3 + y_4

 Subject To
  r_1: - y_2 + y_1 >= 1
  r_2: - y_3 + y_2 >= 1
  r_3: - y_4 + y_3 >= 1

 Bounds
  0 <= y_1 <= 4
  0 <= y_2 <= 4
  0 <= y_3 <= 4
  0 <= y_4 <= 4

 Generals
  y_1
  y_2
  y_3
  y_4

Looking for the objective function's minimum I<and> maximum with both
lower I<and> upper bound constraints:

 use PDL;
 use PDL::Opt::GLPK;

 my $a = pdl(
     [[1, -1, 0, 0],
      [0, 1, -1, 0],
      [0, 0, 1, -1]]);
 my $b = pdl([1, 1, 1]);
 my $c = pdl([1, 1, 1, 1]);
 my $lb = pdl([0, 0, 0, 0]);
 my $ub = pdl([4, 4, 4, 4]);

 # dims: 3, 2 - loop over lower and upper bounds
 my $ctype = pdl([[GLP_LO, GLP_LO, GLP_LO],[GLP_UP, GLP_UP, GLP_UP]]);

 my $vtype = (GLP_IV * ones(4));

 # dims: 1, 2 - extra loop over min and max
 my $sense = pdl [[GLPX_MAX], [GLPX_MIN]];

 my $xopt = null;
 my $fopt = null;
 my $status = null;

 glpk($c, $a, $b, $lb, $ub, $ctype, $vtype, $sense, $xopt, $fopt, $status);

 # $xopt:
 # [
 #  [
 #   [4 3 2 1]
 #   [4 4 4 4]
 #  ]
 #  [
 #   [3 2 1 0]
 #   [0 0 0 0]
 #  ]
 # ]
 #
 # $fopt:
 # [
 #  [10 16]
 #  [ 6  0]
 # ]

=head2 Specifying parameters

The C<params> hash ref is always the last argument. It is permitted to
leave out the other optional output arguments, as in

 glpk($c, $a, $b, $lb, $up, $ctpye, $vtype, $sense,
     $xopt, $fopt, $status, {save_pb => 1});

=head1 ERRORS

In case the solver reports an error, it will raise an PDL error.

=head1 AUTHOR

Jörg Sommrey

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2024 Jörg Sommrey

This library is free software; you may redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 3.
See COPYING.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The Octave Manual:
L<https://docs.octave.org/latest/Linear-Programming.html>

The GNU Linear Programming Kit:
L<https://www.gnu.org/software/glpk/>

The GLPK reference manual is included in the GLPK distribution.

=cut
