=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation - base-class for possible interactions

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation is extended by
   XML::Compile::SOAP11::Operation
   XML::Compile::SOAP12::Operation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # created by XML::Compile::WSDL11
 my $op = $wsdl->operation('GetStockPrices');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These objects are created by L<XML::Compile::WSDL11|XML::Compile::WSDL11>, grouping information
about a certain specific message interchange between a client and
a server.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option     --Default
  action       undef
  endpoints    []
  kind         <required>
  name         <required>
  schemas      <required>
  server_type  undef
  transport    'HTTP'

=over 2

=item action => STRING

Some string which is referring to the action which is taken.  For SOAP
protocols, this defines the soapAction header.

=item endpoints => ADDRESS|ARRAY

Where to contact the server.

=item kind => 'one-way'|...

This returns the type of operation this is.  There are four kinds, which
are returned as strings C<one-way>, C<request-response>, C<sollicit-response>,
and C<notification>.  The latter two are initiated by a server, the former
two by a client.

=item name => STRING

=item schemas => XML::Compile::Cache

=item server_type => NAME

Most server implementations show some problems.  Also, servers may produce
responses using their own namespaces (like for error codes).  When you know
which server you are talking to, the quirks of the specific server type can
be loaded.  Read more in the L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Supported servers">.

=item transport => URI|'HTTP'

C<HTTP> is short for C<http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/http/>, which
is a constant to indicate that transport should use the HyperText
Transfer Protocol.

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<bindingName>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<clientClass>()

Returns the class name which implements the Client side for this protocol.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<endPoints>()

Returns the list of alternative URLs for the end-point, which should
be defined within the service's port declaration.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<kind>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<longName>()

[3.06] prefix the service name before the operation name, to make it
really unique.  A C<#> is used as separator.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<name>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<portName>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schemas>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<serverClass>()

Returns the class name which implements the Server side for this protocol.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<serviceName>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<soapAction>()

Used for the C<soapAction> header in HTTP transport, for routing
messages through firewalls.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<version>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<wsaAction>('INPUT'|'OUTPUT')

Only available when C<XML::Compile::SOAP::WSA> is loaded. It specifies
the name of the operation in the WSA header.  With C<INPUT>, it is the
Action to be used with a message sent to the server (input to the
server). The C<OUTPUT> is used by the server in its message back.

=back

=head2 Handlers

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compileClient>(%options)

Returns one CODE reference which handles the conversion from a perl
data-structure into a request message, the transmission of the
request, the receipt of the answer, and the decoding of that answer
into a Perl data-structure.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compileHandler>(%options)

Returns a code reference which translates in incoming XML message
into Perl a data-structure, then calls the callback.  The result of
the callback is encoded from Perl into XML and returned.

 -Option  --Default
  callback  <required>

=over 2

=item callback => CODE

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compileTransporter>(%options)

Create the transporter code for a certain specific target.

 -Option        --Default
  endpoint        <from WSDL>
  server          undef
  transport_hook  undef
  transporter     <created>

=over 2

=item endpoint => URI|ARRAY-of-URI

Overrule the destination address(es).

=item server => URI-HOST

Overrule only the server part in the endpoint, not the whole endpoint.
This could be a string like C<username:password@myhost:4711>.  Only
used when no explicit C<endpoint> is provided.

=item transport_hook => CODE

Passed to L<XML::Compile::Transport::compileClient(hook)|XML::Compile::Transport/"Handlers">.  Can be
used to create off-line tests and last resort work-arounds.  See the
DETAILs chapter in the L<XML::Compile::Transport|XML::Compile::Transport> manual page.

=item transporter => CODE|XML::Compile::Transport-object

The routine which will be used to exchange the data with the server.
This code is created by an L<XML::Compile::Transport::compileClient()|XML::Compile::Transport/"Handlers">
extension.

By default, a transporter compatible to the protocol is created.  However,
in most cases you want to reuse one (HTTP1.1) connection to a server.

[3.14] You may provide a L<XML::Compile::Transport|XML::Compile::Transport> object as well.  Its
compileClient() will be called for you.

=back

=back

=head2 Helpers

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<explain>($wsdl, $format, $direction, %options)

Dump an annotated structure showing how the operation works, helping
developers to understand the schema. $format is C<PERL> or C<XML>.

The $direction is C<INPUT>, it will return the message which the client
sends to the server (input for the server). The C<OUTPUT> message is
sent as response by the server.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<parsedWSDL>(%options)

[2.29] For some purposes, it is useful to get access to the parsed WSDL
structure.

B<Be aware> that the structure returned is consided "internal"
and strongly influenced by behavior of L<XML::Compile|XML::Compile>; backwards
compatibility will not be maintained at all cost.

You can use L<XML::Compile::Schema::template()|XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers"> format C<TREE> to get
more details about the element types mentioned in this structure.

example: 

  use Data::Dumper;
  $Data::Dumper::Indent    = 1;
  $Data::Dumper::Quotekeys = 0;

  print Dumper $op->parsedWSDL;

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-SOAP distribution version 3.21,
built on January 11, 2017. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile> .
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

