=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::SOAP::Trace - help displaying trace details.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my ($answer, $trace) = $call->(%params);
 # now $trace is a XML::Compile::SOAP::Trace

 my $req = $trace->request;   # HTTP message which was sent
 my $res = $trace->response;  # HTTP message received

 my $start = $trace->date;
 my $dura  = $trace->elapse;

 $trace->printTimings;
 $trace->printErrors;
 $trace->printTimings(\*STDERR);
 $trace->printRequest(pretty_print => 1);
 $trace->printResponse;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This help module simplifies user access to the trace data,
as produced by a SOAP call (client side).

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item XML::Compile::SOAP::Trace-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

Called by the SOAP call implementation; not for normal users.

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<date>()

Returns the date string which represent the moment that the call
was initiated.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<elapse>( [$kind] )

Returns the time in seconds (with hires, sub-second detail) of a part of
the SOAP communication. Some values may be C<undef>.  Elapse without
argument will return the total time elapsed.

As KINDs are defined C<encode> (the time required by the translator
build by XML::Compile::Schema to translate Perl into an XML::LibXML
tree), C<transport>, and C<decode> (from XML::LibXML tree into Perl)>.
The transport components are also provided separately, as C<stringify>
(by XML::LibXML to convert a tree into text), C<connect> (for the network
message exchange by HTTP::Daemon), and C<parse> (parsing answer string
into XML)

See L<printTimings()|XML::Compile::SOAP::Trace/"Printing">.

example: 

 print $trace->elapse('decode');

=item $obj-E<gt>B<error>( [$error] )

Often contains an error message, when something went wrong.  The message
is returned as Log::Report::Exception.  Only the first error is returned,
use L<errors()|XML::Compile::SOAP::Trace/"Accessors"> to get all.

[2.31] When an $error is provided, it is added to the internal list of errors.
The $error parameter may be a Log::Report::Exception, a
Log::Report::Message or a simple string.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<errors>()

[2.31] Return all errors, which are Log::Report::Exception objects.
See also L<error()|XML::Compile::SOAP::Trace/"Accessors">.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<request>()

Returns the HTTP::Request object used for this SOAP call.  This might
be quite useful during debugging, because a lot of the processing is
hidden for the user... but you may want to see or log what is actually
begin send.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<response>()

Returns the HTTP::Response object, returned by the remote server.  In
some erroneous cases, the client library will create an error response
without any message was exchanged.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<responseDOM>()

Returns the XML::LibXML::Document top node of the response: the parsed
text of the content of the received HTTP message.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<start>()

Returns the (platform dependent) time value which represent the moment
that the call was initiated.  See Time::HiRes method C<time>.

=back

=head2 Printing

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<printErrors>( [$fh] )

The filehandle defaults to STDERR.

If you want to see more output, try adding C<<use Log::Report mode => 3;>>

=item $obj-E<gt>B<printRequest>( [$fh], %options )

 -Option      --Default
  pretty_print  0

=over 2

=item pretty_print => 0|1|2

Use L<XML::Compile::Transport::compileClient(xml_format)|XML::Compile::Transport/"Handlers"> if you want
the messages to be shown readible.  The digits reflect XML::LibXML
format settings: '0' is unchanged, '1' will show indented formatting,
and '2' has even more whitespace in it.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<printResponse>( [$fh], %options )

 -Option      --Default
  pretty_print  0

=over 2

=item pretty_print => 0|1|2

Use L<XML::Compile::Transport::compileClient(xml_format)|XML::Compile::Transport/"Handlers"> if you want
the messages to be shown readible.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<printTimings>( [$fh] )

Print an overview on various timings to the selected filehandle.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-SOAP distribution version 3.21,
built on January 11, 2017. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile> .
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

