
=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 Running the module tests


B<NOTE - DO NOT RUN THE TESTS AGAINST NODES WITH IMPORTANT CONTENT. THE TESTS MAY BE DESTRUCTIVE>

The standard module tests run without connecting to any OpenSearch nodes.

=head2 To include tests against an HTTP node:

=over

=item

Specify the current default client version ( "3_0" )

C<export CLIENT_VER="3_0">

=item

Specify a node that allows http or https connections

C<export OS="192.168.100.10:9200">

If your node uses SSL, also export

C<export OS_ALWAYS_SSL=1>

If your node uses SSL and requires authentication

C<export OS_USERINFO="username:password">

=item

Specify a type of connection

Choose between HTTP::Tiny and LWP::UserAgent. The default is HTTP::Tiny.

C<export OS_CXN="LWP">

C<export OS_CXN="HTTPTiny">

=item

Specify a type of connection pool.

The default is C<Static> but you may need C<Static::NoPing> if your node is behind some load balancer or reverse proxy.

C<export OS_CXN_POOL="Static::NoPing">

=item

To run tests for the Bulk Helper module

C<export OS_TEST_BULK_HELPERS=1>

=item

To run tests for the Scroll Helper module

C<export OS_TEST_SCROLL_HELPERS=1>

=back

=head2 To also include HTTPS specific tests

=over

=item

Specify a node that allows https connections

C<export OS_SSL="192.168.100.11:9200">

=item

If the node requires authentication

C<export OS_USERINFO="username:password">

=item

By default, the tests will not verify the certificate of the host node.

To verify a certificate signed by a local CA

C<export OS_CA_PATH=/path/to/local-ca.pem>

=back

=head1 MANUAL

Documentation index L<OpenSearch::Client::Manual>

=head1 HISTORY

This distribution is derived from L<Search::Elasticsearch> version 7.714.
All subsequent changes are unique to this distribution.

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark Dootson E<lt>mdootson@cpan.orgE<gt> ( current maintainer )

=head1 CREDITS

L<OpenSearch::Client> is based on L<Search::Elasticsearch> version 7.714
by Enrico Zimuel E<lt>enrico.zimuel@elastic.coE<gt>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2026 by Mark Dootson ( this distribution )

Copyright (C) 2021 by Elasticsearch BV ( original distribution ) 

This is free software, licensed under:

  The Apache License, Version 2.0, January 2004

=cut
