=head1 NAME 

Nitesi::Database::Schema - Database schema for Nitesi

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes the proposed database schema for L<Nitesi>,
the Open Source Shop Machine.

The C<CREATE TABLE> statements are written for MySQL, but should
work with small adjustments for PostgreSQL too.

=head2 PRODUCTS

Products are stored in the C<products> table.

=head3 products table

    CREATE TABLE products (
      sku varchar(32) NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
      name varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      short_description varchar(500) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      description text NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      price decimal(10,2) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      uri varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      weight integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      priority integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      gtin varchar(32) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      canonical_sku varchar(32) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      status varchar(32) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      inactive boolean NOT NULL DEFAULT FALSE
    );

=over 4

=item sku

Unique product identifier

=item name

Product name.

=item short_description

Short description of the product.

=item description

Full description of the product.

=item price

Product price.

=item uri

Link to product.

=item weight

Product weight in grams.

=item priority

The product priority is used for sorting products on
search results and category listings.

=item gtin

Global trade item number (GTIN). ISBN, EAN and UPC
numbers can be expressed as GTIN, see
L<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_Trade_Item_Number>.

=item canonical_sku

The canonical SKU is used for product variants, e.g.
different size and color.

=item status

The product status. Possible values are:

=over 4

=item available

Product can be delivered immediately.

=item short wait

Product can be delivered in a few days.

=item long wait

Product can be delivered, but it takes
longer than a few days.

=item unknown

Product can be delivered, but we have no idea
how long it takes.

=item not available

Product is sold out or discontinued.

=back

=item inactive

Inactive products are excluded from search results and
category listings.

=back

=head3 product_attributes table

    CREATE TABLE product_attributes (
      code serial NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
      sku varchar(32) NOT NULL,
      name varchar(32) NOT NULL,
      value text NOT NULL default '',
      original_sku varchar(32) NOT NULL default ''
    ) CHARACTER SET utf8;

    CREATE INDEX product_attributes_sku ON product_attributes (sku);

=over 4

=item sku

Unique product identifier from C<products> table.

=item name

Name of the attribute, e.g. color.

=item value

Value of the attribute, e.g. red.

=item original_sku

Product identifier for the master attribute.

=back

=head3 inventory table

    CREATE TABLE inventory (
       sku varchar(32) NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
       quantity integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
       in_stock boolean,
    );

=over 4

=item sku

Unique product identifier from C<products> table.

=item quantity

Available quantity.

=item in_stock

Whether to show item as in_stock or not. 

=back

=head2 NAVIGATION

Menus and (product) categories are stored in the C<navigation> table.

=head3 navigation table

    CREATE TABLE navigation (
      code serial NOT NULL,
      uri varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      type varchar(32) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      scope varchar(32) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      name varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      description text NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      template varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      language varchar(8) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      alias integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      parent integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      priority integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      count integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      inactive boolean NOT NULL default FALSE,
      entered timestamp DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
      PRIMARY KEY(code),
      UNIQUE(uri)
    );

=over 4

=item uri

URL for the link to the navigation element.
Starts with the URL of the parent navigation element.

E.g. for parent element "Europe" and child element "Germany" 
you get as uri values:

     Europe
     Europe/Germany

=item type

Navigation type, e.g. menu or category.

=item scope

Scope related to type, menu name for menus
or categorization (brand, star) for categories.

=item template

Template used for this navigation element. This is used usually
in conjunction with menu elements.

=item language

Language for this navigation element.

=item alias

Pointer to the original navigation element.

=item parent

Pointer to the parent navigation element.

=item count

Number of active products belonging to this navigation
entry.

=back

=head3 navigation_products table

    CREATE TABLE navigation_products (
      sku varchar(32) NOT NULL,
      navigation integer NOT NULL,
      type varchar(16) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      key(sku,navigation)
    );

=head2 MEDIA

Media are stored in the C<media> table.

=head3 C<media> table

   create table media (
      code serial NOT NULL,
      file varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      uri varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      mime_type varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      label varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      author integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      created datetime NOT NULL,
      modified datetime NOT NULL,
      inactive boolean NOT NULL DEFAULT FALSE,
      primary key(code)
--      unique(file),
--      unique(uri)
   );

=head3 C<media_types> table

   create table media_types (
      code serial NOT NULL,
      type varchar(32) NOT NULL,
      scope varchar(32) NOT NULL,
      unique(type,scope)
   );

   insert into media_types (type,scope) values ('detail', 'store');
   insert into media_types (type,scope) values ('thumb', 'store');
   insert into media_types (type,scope) values ('cart', 'store');
     
=head3 C<media_products> table

   create table media_products (
      code serial NOT NULL,
      media integer NOT NULL,
      sku varchar(32) NOT NULL,
      KEY (sku)
   );

=head3 C<media_display> table

   create table media_display (
      code serial NOT NULL,
      media integer NOT NULL,
      sku varchar(32) NOT NULL,
      type integer NOT NULL,
      KEY (sku)
   );

=head2 MERCHANDISING

Merchandising tables.

    CREATE TABLE merchandising_products (
      code serial NOT NULL,
      sku character varying(32) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      sku_related character varying(32) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      type character varying(32) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      primary key(code)
    );

    CREATE TABLE merchandising_attributes (
      code serial NOT NULL,
      merchandising integer NOT NULL default 0,
      name varchar(32) NOT NULL,
      value text NOT NULL default '',
      primary key(code)
    );

=head2 PRICING

=head3 C<group_pricing> table

    CREATE TABLE group_pricing (
        code serial NOT NULL,
        sku character varying(32) NOT NULL,
        quantity integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
        rid integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
        price decimal(10,2) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
        primary key(code),
        key(sku)
    );

=head2 CARTS

Carts are stored in the C<carts> and C<carts_products> table.

=head3 C<carts> table

    CREATE TABLE carts (
      code serial NOT NULL,
      name character varying(255) DEFAULT '' NOT NULL,
      uid integer DEFAULT 0 NOT NULL,
      session_id character varying(255) DEFAULT '' NOT NULL,
      created integer DEFAULT 0 NOT NULL,
      last_modified integer DEFAULT 0 NOT NULL,
      type character varying(32) DEFAULT '' NOT NULL,
      approved boolean,
      status character varying(32) DEFAULT '' NOT NULL,
      primary key(code)
   );

=head3 cart_products

    CREATE TABLE cart_products (
      cart integer NOT NULL,
      sku character varying(32) NOT NULL,
      "position" integer NOT NULL,
      quantity integer DEFAULT 1 NOT NULL,
      priority integer DEFAULT 0 NOT NULL
    );

=head2 USERS, ROLES, PERMISSIONS

=head3 users

    CREATE TABLE users (
      uid serial primary key,
      username varchar(255) NOT NULL,
      email varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      password varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      first_name varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      last_name varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      last_login integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      created datetime NOT NULL,
      modified datetime NOT NULL,
      inactive boolean NOT NULL DEFAULT FALSE
    );

=over 4

=item uid

Numeric primary key for users.

=item username

User name (usually lowercase of email).

=item email

Email address.

=item password

Encrypted password.

=item last_login

Time of last login

=item created

Time of account creation.

=back

=head3 user_attributes

    CREATE TABLE user_attributes (
      code serial NOT NULL,
      uid integer NOT NULL,
      name varchar(32) NOT NULL,
      value text NOT NULL default '',
      primary key(code),
      key(uid)
    );

Attributes to be stored in user_attributes are:

=over 4

=item aid_shipping

Default shipping address identifier.

=item aid_billing

Default billing address identifier.

=back

=head3 roles

    CREATE TABLE roles (
      rid serial primary key,
      name varchar(32) NOT NULL,
      label varchar(255) NOT NULL
    );

    INSERT INTO roles (rid,name,label) VALUES (1, 'anonymous', 'Anonymous Users');
    INSERT INTO roles (rid,name,label) VALUES (2, 'authenticated', 'Authenticated Users');

=over 4

=item rid

Numeric primary key for roles.

=item name

Role name.

=item label

Role label (for display only).

=back

=head3 user_roles

    CREATE TABLE user_roles (
      uid integer DEFAULT 0 NOT NULL,
      rid integer DEFAULT 0 NOT NULL,
      PRIMARY KEY (uid, rid)
    );

    CREATE INDEX idx_user_roles_rid ON user_roles (rid);

=over 4

=item uid

Foreign key for user.

=item rid

Foreign key for role.

=back

=head3 permissions

    CREATE TABLE permissions (
      rid integer not null default 0,
      uid integer not null default 0,
      perm varchar(255) not null default ''
    );

    INSERT INTO permissions (rid,perm) VALUES (1,'anonymous');
    INSERT INTO permissions (rid,perm) VALUES (2,'authenticated');

Permissions are you usually granted to rules, but in somes
cases you may want to grant a permission to a specific user.

Please set either C<rid> or C<uid> and use 0 as value for the
other in a single record.

=over 4

=item rid

Foreign key for role.

=item uid

Foreign key for user.

=item perm

Permission, e.g. C<view_cart>, C<add_user>.

=back

=cut

=head2 ADDRESSES

=head3 addresses

    CREATE TABLE addresses (
      aid serial NOT NULL,
      uid integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      type varchar(16) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      archived boolean NOT NULL DEFAULT FALSE,
      first_name varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      last_name varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      company varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      street_address varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      zip varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      city varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      phone varchar(32) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      state_code char(2) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      country_code char(2) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      created datetime NOT NULL,
      modified datetime NOT NULL,
      CONSTRAINT transactions_pkey PRIMARY KEY (aid)
    );

=over 4

=item uid

Foreign key for user, 0 for anonymous users.

=item type

Address type, e.g. shipping or billing.

=item archived

Set for addresses used in the past.

=item first_name

First name of person attached to this address.

=item last_name

Last name of person attached to this address.

=item company

Company name attached to this address.

=item street_address

Street address, including house number.

=item zip

Zip code.

=item city

City.

=item state_code

State code.

=item country_code

Country code.

=back

=head2 TRANSACTIONS

=head3 transactions

    create table transactions (
      code serial not null,
      order_number varchar(24) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      order_date timestamp,
      uid integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      email varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      aid_shipping integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      aid_billing integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      weight integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      payment_method varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      payment_code varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      payment_status varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      shipping_method varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      shipping_code varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      subtotal numeric(11,2) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      shipping numeric(11,2) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      handling numeric(11,2) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      salestax numeric(11,2) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      total_cost numeric(11,2) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      status varchar(24) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      CONSTRAINT transactions_pkey PRIMARY KEY (code)
    );

=over 4

=item payment_status

Possible values are:

=over 4

=item pending

Payment is pending.

=item success

Payment has been successful.

=item failure

Payment has been failed.

=item canceled

Payment has been canceled.

=back

=item shipping_method

Shipping method for the order.

=item shipping_code

Shipping ID assigned by shipping company.

=item subtotal

Subtotal of the order (sum of product prices).

=item shipping

Shipping cost of the order.

=item handling

Other fees applied to the order.

=item salestax

Salestax for the order.

=item total_cost

Total amount of the order.

=item status

Status of the order.

=back

=head3 orderline

    create table orderline (
      code serial not null,
      order_number varchar(24) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      position integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      sku varchar(32) NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
      name varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      short_description varchar(500) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      description text NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      weight integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      quantity integer,
      quantity_shipped integer,
      shipping_method varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      shipping_code varchar(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
      price numeric(10,2) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      subtotal numeric(11,2) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      shipping numeric(11,2) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      handling numeric(11,2) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      salestax numeric(11,2) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      status varchar(24) NOT NULL DEFAULT ''
    );

The fields sku, name, short_description, description, price
and weight are the values for the product at the time of
order.

=over 4

=item order_number

Reference to order number in C<transactions>.

=item position

Position of ordered item (1, ...).

=item quantity

Quantity of ordered item.

=item quantity_shipped

Shipped quantity of ordered item.

=item shipping_method

Shipping method for the ordered item.

=item shipping_code

Shipping ID assigned by shipping company.

=item subtotal

Subtotal of the ordered item (sum of product price).

=item shipping

Shipping cost of the ordered item.

=item handling

Other fees applied to the ordered item.

=item salestax

Salestax for the ordered item.

=item status

Status of the ordered item.

=back

=head3 payment_transactions

    CREATE TABLE payment_transactions (
      code serial NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
      payment_mode varchar(32) NOT NULL default '',
      payment_action varchar(32) NOT NULL default '',
      payment_id varchar(32) NOT NULL default '',
      auth_code varchar(255) NOT NULL default '',
      session_id varchar(255) NOT NULL default '',
      order_number varchar(24) NOT NULL default '',
      amount numeric(11,2) NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
      status varchar(32) NOT NULL default '',
      payment_session_id varchar(255) NOT NULL default '',
      payment_error_code varchar(32) NOT NULL default '',
      payment_error_message text NOT NULL default '',
      created datetime default NULL,
      last_modified datetime default NULL
    );

=over 4

=item payment_mode

Payment gateway.

=item payment_id

Payment id retrieved from payment server.

=item auth_code

Authentication code retrieved from payment server.

=item session_id

Session id used in the shop.

=item order_number

Order number from L<transactions> table.

=item amount

Amount passed to payment server.

=item payment_session_id

Session id retrieved from payment server, e.g. for
IPayment gateway.

=back

=head2 SETTINGS

Settings stored in the database, used to complement the
settings retrieved from the web framework configuration,
e.g. L<Dancer::Config>.

=head3 settings

    CREATE TABLE settings (
      code serial primary key,
      scope varchar(32) NOT NULL,
      site varchar(32) NOT NULL default '',
      name varchar(32) NOT NULL,
      value text NOT NULL,
      category varchar(32) NOT NULL default ''
    );

    CREATE INDEX settings_scope ON settings (scope);

=head2 SESSIONS

Sessions stored in the database (optional).

=head3 sessions

    CREATE TABLE sessions (
      code varchar(255) not null primary key,
      session_data text not null,
      session_hash text not null,
      created datetime not null,
      modified timestamp not null DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    );

=head2 OTHER

=head3 path_redirect

=cut
