=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Any::Daemon::HTTP::Directory - describe a server directory 

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Any::Daemon::HTTP::Directory
   is an Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source

 Any::Daemon::HTTP::Directory is extended by
   Any::Daemon::HTTP::UserDirs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # implicit creation of ::Directory object
 my $vh = Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost
   ->new(directories => {path => '/', location => ...})

 my $vh = Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost
   ->new(directories => [ \%dir1, \%dir2, $dir_obj ])

 # explicit use
 my $root = Any::Daemon::HTTP::Directory
   ->new(path => '/', location => '...');
 my $vh = Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost
   ->new(directories => $root);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Each L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost|Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost> will define where the files
are located.  Parts of the URI path can map on different (virtual)
directories, with different access rights.

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source/"METHODS">.
 
=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source/"Constructors">.
 
=over 4

=item Any::Daemon::HTTP::Directory-E<gt>B<new>(%options|\%options)

 -Option        --Defined in               --Default
  allow           Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source  <undef>
  charset                                    utf-8
  deny            Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source  <undef>
  directory_list                             <false>
  index_file                                 ['index.html', 'index.htm']
  location                                   <required>
  name            Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source  path
  path            Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source  '/'

=over 2

=item allow => CIDR|HOSTNAME|DOMAIN|CODE|ARRAY

=item charset => STRING

The character-set which is used all text-files on the system, used in
response headers of text-files.

=item deny => CIDR|HOSTNAME|DOMAIN|CODE|ARRAY

=item directory_list => BOOLEAN

Enables the display of a directory, when it does not contain one of the
C<index_file> prepared defaults.

=item index_file => STRING|ARRAY

When a directory is addressed, it is scanned whether one of these files
exist.  If so, the content will be shown.

=item location => DIRECTORY|CODE

The DIRECTORY to be prefixed before the path of the URI, or a CODE
reference which will rewrite the path (passed as only parameter) into the
absolute file or directory name.

=item name => STRING

=item path => PATH

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

Extends L<"Attributes" in Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source/"Attributes">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<charset>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<location>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<name>()

Inherited, see L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source/"Attributes">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<path>()

Inherited, see L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source/"Attributes">

=back

=head2 Permissions

Extends L<"Permissions" in Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source/"Permissions">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<allow>($session, $request, $uri)

Inherited, see L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source/"Permissions">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<collect>($vhost, $session, $request, $uri)

Inherited, see L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source/"Permissions">

=back

=head2 Actions

Extends L<"Actions" in Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source/"Actions">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<filename>($path)

Convert a URI $path into a directory path.  Return C<undef> if not possible.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<list>($directory, %options)

Returns a HASH with information about the $directory content.  This may
be passed into some template or the default template.  See L</Return of
directoryList> about the returned output.

 -Option       --Default
  filter         <undef>
  hide_symlinks  <false>
  names          <skip hidden files>

=over 2

=item filter => CODE

For each of the selected names (see  C<names> option) the lstat() is
called.  That data is expanded into a HASH, but not all additional
fields are yet filled-in (only the ones which come for free).

=item hide_symlinks => BOOLEAN

=item names => CODE|Regexp

Reduce the returned list.  The CODE reference is called with the found
filename, and should return true when the name is acceptable.  The
default regexp (on UNIX) is C<< qr/^[^.]/ >>

=back

=back

=head1 DETAILS

Extends L<"DETAILS" in Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source/"DETAILS">.
 
=head2 Resource restrictions

Extends L<"Resource restrictions" in Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source/"Resource restrictions">.
 
=head2 Return of list()

The L<list()|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Directory/"Actions"> method returns a HASH of HASHes, where the
primary keys are the directory entries, each refering to a HASH
with details.  It is designed to ease the connection to template
systems.

The details contain the C<lstat> information plus some additional
helpers.  The lstat call provides the fields C<dev>, C<ino>, C<mode>,
C<nlink>, C<uid>, C<gid>, C<rdev>, C<size>,  C<atime>, C<mtime>,
C<ctime>, C<blksize>, C<blocks> -as far as supported by your OS.
The entry's C<name> and C<path> are added.

The C<kind> field contains the string C<DIRECTORY>, C<FILE>, C<SYMLINK>,
or C<OTHER>.  Besides, you get either an C<is_directory>, C<is_file>,
C<is_symlink>, or C<is_other> field set to true.  Equivalent are:

   if($entry->{kind} eq 'DIRECTORY')
   if($entry->{is_directory})

It depends on the kind of entry which of the following fields are added
additionally.  Symlinks will get C<symlink_dest>, C<symlink_dest_exists>.
Files hace the C<size_nice>, which is the size in pleasant humanly readable
format.

Files and directories have the C<mtime_nice> (in localtime).  The C<user> and
C<group> which are textual representations of the numeric uid and gid are
added.  The C<flags> represents the UNIX standard permission-bit display,
as produced by the "ls -l" command.

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Any-Daemon-HTTP distribution version 0.30,
built on April 06, 2020. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/any-daemon/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2013-2020 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

