=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source - source of information

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source is extended by
   Any::Daemon::HTTP::Directory
   Any::Daemon::HTTP::Proxy

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Each L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost|Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost> will define where the files
are located.  Parts of the URI path can map on different (virtual)
resources, with different access rights.

=over 4

=item *

Directories containing files are handled by L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::Directory|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Directory>
objects.

=item *

User directories, like used in the URI C<<http://xx/~user/yy>> are
implemented in L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::UserDirs|Any::Daemon::HTTP::UserDirs>, which extends this class.

=item *

Forwarding proxies translate a path into requests to a remote server.
The reply is returned.  Various rules can be applied.  Implemented in
L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::Proxy|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Proxy>.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source-E<gt>B<new>(%options|\%options)

 -Option--Default
  allow   <undef>
  deny    <undef>
  name    path
  path    '/'

=over 2

=item allow => CIDR|HOSTNAME|DOMAIN|CODE|ARRAY

Allow all requests which pass any of these parameters, and none
of the deny parameters.  See L</Allow access>.  B<Be warned> that
the access rights are not inherited from directory configurations
encapsulating this one.

=item deny => CIDR|HOSTNAME|DOMAIN|CODE|ARRAY

See C<allow> and L</Allow access>

=item name => STRING

=item path => PATH

If the directory PATH (relative to the document root C<location>) is not
trailed by a '/', it will be made so.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<name>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<path>()

=back

=head2 Permissions

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<allow>($session, $request, $uri)

BE WARNED that the $uri is the rewrite of the $request uri, and therefore
you should use that $uri.  The $session represents a user.

See L</Allow access>.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<collect>($vhost, $session, $request, $uri)

Try to produce a response (HTTP::Response) for something inside this
directory structure.  C<undef> is returned if nothing useful is found.

=back

=head2 Actions

=head1 DETAILS

=head2 Resource restrictions

=head3 Allow access

The L<allow()|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source/"Permissions"> method handles access rights.  When a trueth value is
produced, then access is permitted.

The base class implements access rules via the C<allow> or C<deny> option
of L<new()|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source/"Constructors">.  These parameters are exclusive (which is slightly different
from Apache); you can either allow or deny, but not both at the same time.
B<Be warned> that the access rights are also not inherited from directory
configurations encapsulating this one.

The parameters to C<allow> or C<deny> are an ARRAY with any combination of

=over 4

=item IPv4 and IPv6 address ranges in CIDR notation

=item hostname

=item domain name (leading dot)

=item your own CODE reference, which will be called with the IP address,

  the hostname, the session, and the rewritten URI.

=back

B<. Example: new(allow) parameters>

 my $vhost = My::VHOST::Class->new( allow =>
    [ '192.168.2.1/32         # IPv4 CIDR, single address
    , '10/8'                  # IPv4 CIDR
    , '10.0.0.0-10.3.255.255' # IPv4 range
    , '::dead:beef:0:0/110'   # IPv6 range
    , 'www.example.com'       # hostname
    , '.example.com'          # domain and subdomains
    , 'example.com'           # only this domain
    ], ...

B<. Example: create own access rules>

If you have an ::VirtualHost extension class, you do this:

 sub allow($$$)
 {   my ($self, $session, $request, $uri) = @_;

     # General rules may refuse access already
     $self->SUPER::allow($session, $request, $uri)
         or return 0;

     # here your own checks
     # $session is a Any::Daemon::HTTP::Session
     # $request is a HTTP::Request
     # $uri     is a URI::

     1;
 }

You may also pass a code-ref to L<new(allow)|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Source/"Constructors">:

 my $vhost = Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost
     ->new(allow => \&my_rules, ...);

 sub my_rules($$$$)   # called before each request
 {   my ($ip, $host, $session, $uri) = @_;
     # return true if access is permitted
 }

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Any-Daemon-HTTP distribution version 0.29,
built on November 04, 2019. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/any-daemon/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2013-2019 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

