=head1 NAME

Syntax::Kamelon::Builder - Builds a lexer from an xml file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Syntax::Kamelon::Builder;
 my $lexer = Syntax::Kamelon::Builder->new(%options);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module inherits B<Syntax::Kamelon::XMLData>. 

The constructor does not return an object but a data structure called a lexer. 
Below more details of what it looks like. You will never have the opportunity to
call any of it's methods. It creates a lexer and says bye bye. If fact you never
have to create an instance of it. Kamelon does that for you.

=head1 OPTIONS

The constructor is called with a paired list or hash of options as parameters. You must use
the following options.

=over 4

=item B<engine> => $ref 

A reference to the main Kamelon object.

=item B<xmlfile> => $filename

Full path and file name of the xml file to load.

=back

=head1 STRUCTURE OF A LEXER

=over 4

=item B<Global overview>

 my $lexer = {
	basecontext => 'first',
   contexts => {
	  first => {
	  },
	  second => {
	  }
   },
   deliminators => ".|(|)|:|!|+|,|-|<|=|>|%|&|*|/|;|?|[|]|^|{|||}|~|\\",
   lists => {
		mycolors => {
			red => 1,
			yellow => 1,
		},
   }
   syntax => 'Name',
 };

Notice that lists are in fact hashes. This is for faster
lookup. After all we only need to know if an entry exists or not.

=item B<The contexts in detail>

 my $context = {
  attribute => $something,
  callbacks => [ #the rules in action
    [\&testMethod, @options, $contextshifter, $attribute, @resultparsers],
    [\&testMethod2, @options2, $contextshifter2, $attribute2, @resultparsers2],
    #etcetera
  ],
  debug => [
	 [$reftohash, #all the data that was previously in the items key of the context hash.
	 ],
	 [],
    #etcetera
 ],
  dynamic => 0, #or 1
  emptycontext => \&contextshifter,
  endcontext => \&contextshifter,
  fallthroughcontext => undef, #or also a context shifter
  info => {
    #All of the data from the context hash except the items key (the rules)
  }
};

=item B<Context shifters>

=item B<Result parsers>

=back

=head1 SYSTEM METHODS

=over 4

=item B<AttributeGet>(I<$attribute>);

Returns the style tag belonging to $attribute in the Attributes hash.
If it cannot find it it will log a warning and return the style tag
belonging to the current context.

=item B<AttributeGetF>(I<$attribute>);

Uses B<AttributeGet> to obtain the styel tag. Returns the format information belonging 
to the style tag. 

=item B<ContextExists>(I<$contextname>);

Returns true if the context exists in the contexts hash.

=item B<CurContext>(I<$contextname>);

Sets and returns the current context.

=item B<CurContextIsDynamic>

Returns true if the current context is dynamic.

=item B<CurRule>I(<$rulenumber>);

Sets and returns the current rule within the current context.

=item B<Deliminators>I(<$rulenumber>);

Sets and returns the composed deliminators string. It is composed
of the general deliminators, the B<WaekDeliminator> and the B<AdditionalDeliminator>.

=item B<Engine>

Returns a reference to the main Kamelon object.

=item B<LogWarning>($message);

And exacter Warning mechanism than Kamelon has.

=item B<RuleGetArgs>(I<$reftorule>, I<@optionstoretrieve>));

Returns a list of the values belonging to I<@optionstoretrieve>.

=item B<RuleGetChar>(I<$char>);

Generally a char data type consists of one character. However, an escaped character
has two. This methods returns the escaped character also as the real character. so
a newline for a \n etc.

=item B<Setup>

The initiater of the building process.

=item B<SetupContext>(I<$lexer>, I<$contextname>, I<$reftodata>);

Sets up context and stores it in $lexer.

=item B<SetupContextRules>(I<$lexer>, I<$contextname>, I<$reftodata>);

Sets up the rules for $contextname.

=item B<SetupContextShifter>(I<$lexer>, I<$contextname>);

Creates an anonymous sub that does a context shift when executed.

=item B<SetupRuleXXXXX>(I<$reftorule>);

All these methods set up specific rules inside a context.

=item B<SetupRuleAnyChar>

=item B<SetupRuleDefault>

=item B<SetupRuleDetectChar>

=item B<SetupRuleDetect2Chars>

=item B<SetupRuleKeyword>

=item B<SetupRuleLineContinue>

=item B<SetupRuleRangeDetect>

=item B<SetupRuleRegMinimal>

=item B<SetupRuleRegExpr>

=item B<SetupRuleStringDetect>

=item B<SyntaxExists>

Checks if a syntax is available before creating a context shifter 
that uses it.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT

This module is written and maintained by:

Hans Jeuken < hansjeuken at xs4all dot nl>

Copyright (c) 2017 by Hans Jeuken, all rights reserved.

Published under the GPLV3 license

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<Syntax::Kamelon>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Debugger>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Diagnostics>,
B<Syntax::Kamelon::Indexer>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::XMLData>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Format::Base>,
B<Syntax::Kamelon::Format::ANSI>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Format:HTML4>

=cut

