=head1 NAME

Syntax::Kamelon::Debugger - That's what it is

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Syntax::Kamelon::Debugger;
 my $debugger = Syntax::Kamelon::Debugger->new(%options);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module inherets B<Syntax::Kamelon>. It contains a debugging mechanism on top of that.
The debugger can do three things, called tasks:

=over 4

=item B<Step>

Step through the highlighting process and check Kamelon's state along the way (not yet implemented)

=item B<Watch>

Set a watchpoint. The debugger reports if a match occured or failed at the watchpoint. And gives information
about which rule in which context did this.

=item B<Timing>

Used for optimizing Kamelon. Sets a timer on each test method.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

The constructor is called with the same options as B<Syntax::Kamelon>.

=head1 USER METHODS

The debugger overrides some methods of B<Syntax::Kamelon>. It has the following additonal methods available.

=over 4

=item B<CurRule>

=item B<GetStackImage>

Returns an image of the highlight stack. ie a snapshot. It is different from
B<GetState> in that it is stripped of unreadable clutter.

=item B<Line>

Returns the current line number

=item B<Reset>

Overwritten method. 

=item B<SetTasks>('step', 'timer', 'watch');

Set the things you want the debugger to do.

=item B<SetWatch>(I<$line>, I<$column>);

Set the point you want to place the watch on.

=back

=head1 SYSTEM METHODS

The debugger overrides some methods of B<Syntax::Kamelon>. It has the following additonal methods available.

=over 4

=item B<DebugStackPull>

Pulls the last item of the stack, returning it as a list.

=item B<DebugStackPush>(I<$text>, I<$rule>, I<$time>);

Pushes some stuff onto the DebugStack.

=item B<GetStackImage>

Returns an image of the highlight stack. ie a snapshot. It is different from
B<GetState> in that it is stripped of unreadable clutter.

=item B<HighlightLine>(I<$text>);

Overwritten method. Called by B<Highlight>. It is given one line (including the newline) as a parameter.

=item B<NewLine>

Increments the current line number with 1.

=item B<ParseContext>

Overwritten method. Besides Parsing the context it also transfers debug information to 
the debugger.

=item B<ParseResult>

Overwritten method. Besides Parsing the result it also transfers debug information to 
the debugger.

=item B<ParseResultLookAhead>

Overwritten method. Besides Parsing the result it also transfers debug information to 
the debugger.

=item B<PreTask>

Takes care of everything that needs to be done before the next step in the highlighting
process.

=item B<PostTask>

Takes care of everything that needs to be done after a step in the highlighting
process.

=item B<StepPost>

Takes care of the 'step'=task after a step in the highlighting
process.

=item B<StepPre>

Takes care of the 'step'=task before the next step in the highlighting
process.

=item B<TimerPost>

Takes care of the 'timer'=task after a step in the highlighting
process.

=item B<TimerPre>

Takes care of the 'timer'=task before the next step in the highlighting
process.

=item B<WatchPosition>

Checks if the highlighting process is before, on top or after the watch point.

- before returns 0

- on top returns 1

- after returns 2

=item B<WatchPost>

Takes care of the 'watch'=task after a step in the highlighting
process.

=item B<WatchPre>

Takes care of the 'watch'=task before the next step in the highlighting
process.

=item B<WatchResult>

Contains information about the state of Kamelon at the moment it passed
the watch point. At this moment it returns the following structures:
 ('Matched', [$debuginf, $matched, $stackimage]) 
 or
 ('Failed', [$debuginf, undef, $stackimage]) 
 
We aim to make this a bit more friendly.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT

This module is written and maintained by:

Hans Jeuken < hansjeuken at xs4all dot nl>

Copyright (c) 2017 by Hans Jeuken, all rights reserved.

Published under the GPLV3 license

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<Syntax::Kamelon>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Builder>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Diagnostics>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Indexer>, 
B<Syntax::Kamelon::XMLData>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Format::ANSI>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Format:HTML4>


=cut
