=head1 NAME

Syntax::Kamelon::Indexer - Keeps track of available syntax definitions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Syntax::Kamelon::Indexer;
 my $indexer = Syntax::Kamelon::Indexer->new(%options);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module keeps track of available syntax definitions. It attemptds to load an index file
in the B<xmlfolder>. If that fails it will rebuild the index and attempt to save it.

=head1 OPTIONS

The constructor is called with a paired list or hash of options as parameters. You can use
the following options.

=over 4

=item B<indexfile> => filename

Specifies the filename where Kamelon stores information about available syntax definitions.

By default it points to 'indexrc' in the B<xmlfolder>. If the file does not exist Kamelon will 
load all xml files in the B<xmlfolder> and attempt to create the indexfile.

Once the indexfile has been created it becomes static. If you add a syntax definition 
XML file to the B<xmlfolder> it will no longer be recognized. Delete the indexfile and reload
Kamelon to fix that. 

=item B<noindex> => boolean

By default 0. If you set this option Kamelon will ignore the existence of an indexfile
and manually build the index, without saving it. But it gives
you the liberty of adding and removing syntax highlight definition files.

This option comes with a considerable startup penalty.

=item B<xmlfolder> => folder

This is the place where Kamelon looks for syntax highlight definition XML files. By
default it searches @INC for 'Syntax/Kamelon/XML'. Here you find the
XML files used in the Kate text editor. They are specially crafted for this module.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<AvailableSyntaxes>

Returns a list of all available syntax definitions.

=item B<CreateExtIndex>

Creates an index of all available file extensions in the Kate XML files. This is needed if you want to use 
the B<SyntaxPropose> method.

=item B<CreateIndex>

Creates an index of all available xml files in the xmlfolder. This may take a while.

=item B<ExtensionSyntaxes>(I<$fileextension>)

Returns a list of Syntax definitions that support the given file extension.

=item B<Extensions>(I<$reftofileextensiontable>)

Sets and returns the table that supports the B<ExtensionSyntaxes> method.
It is a hash in the form of:

 extension => [syntax1, syntax2, ...]

=item B<FindINC>(I<$filename>);

Searches @INC for $filename and returns the full path of its first occurance.

=item B<GetXMLObject>(I<$syntax>);

Creates and returns a Syntax::Kamelon::XMLData object loaded with the xml file belonging
to $syntax.

=item B<IndexFile>

Sets and returns the index file name. Corrsponds with the B<indexfile> option.

=item B<InfoXXXXX>

These methods return general information about the syntax definitions.

=item B<Info>(I<$syntax>, I<$tag>);

$tag can have the value: 'ext', 'mime', 'menu', 'file' or 'version'.

=item B<InfoExtensions>(I<$syntax>);

=item B<InfoMimeType>(I<$syntax>);

=item B<InfoSection>(I<$syntax>);

=item B<InfoVersion>(I<$syntax>);

=item B<InfoXMLFile>(I<$syntax>);

=item B<LoadIndex>(I<$noindex>);

Loads the index of XMLFolder into memory. $noindex is a boolean. If it is set it will
not load the index file but rebuild the index.

=item B<LoadXML>($fullpathandfilename);

Creates and returns an XMLData object for the given filename.

=item B<SaveIndex>

Saves the index to B<xmlfolder>/B<indexfile>.

=item B<XMLFolder>

Sets and returns the xml folder name. Corresponds with the B<xmlfolder> option.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT

This module is written and maintained by:

Hans Jeuken < hansjeuken at xs4all dot nl>

Copyright (c) 2017 by Hans Jeuken, all rights reserved.

Published under the GPLV3 license

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<Syntax::Kamelon>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Builder>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Debugger>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Diagnostics>,
B<Syntax::Kamelon::XMLData>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Format::Base>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Format::ANSI>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Format:HTML4>

=cut


