=pod

=encoding utf-8

=for stopwords invocant invocants lexicals unintuitive yada globals

=head1 NAME

Kavorka::Manual::PrototypeAndAttributes - the more rarely used features of Perl subroutines

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 The Prototype

Like with the L<sub|perlsub> keyword, a prototype may be provided for
functions. Method dispatch ignores this, so it's only likely to be
useful for C<fun>, and even then, rarely.

Like L<Function::Parameters>, Kavorka uses C<< :(...) >> to indicate
a prototype. This avoids ambiguity between signatures, prototypes and
attributes.

For compatibility with Perl 5.20, the special attribute
C<< :prototype(...) >> is supported as an alternative mechanism for
expressing prototypes.

=head2 The Attributes

Attributes are parsed as per L<perlsub/Subroutine Attributes>.

For anonymous functions, some attributes (e.g. C<:lvalue>) may be
applied too late to take effect. Attributes should mostly work for
named functions though.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs to
L<http://rt.cpan.org/Dist/Display.html?Queue=Kavorka>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Kavorka::Manual>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Toby Inkster E<lt>tobyink@cpan.orgE<gt>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

This software is copyright (c) 2013-2014, 2017 by Toby Inkster.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES

THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

