=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=for :stopwords Apocalypse cpan testmatrix url annocpan anno bugtracker rt cpants kwalitee
diff irc mailto metadata placeholders metacpan dist dzil repo

=for Pod::Coverage weave_section mvp_multivalue_args

=head1 NAME

Pod::Weaver::Section::Support - Add a SUPPORT section to your POD

=head1 VERSION

  This document describes v1.007 of Pod::Weaver::Section::Support - released November 04, 2014 as part of Pod-Weaver-Section-Support.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This section plugin will produce a hunk of pod that lists the various ways to get support
for this module. It will do this only if it is being built with L<Dist::Zilla>
because it needs the data from the dzil object.

If you have L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Repository> enabled in your F<dist.ini>, be sure to check the
repository_link attribute!

This is added B<ONLY> to the main module's POD, because it would be a waste of space to add it to all
modules in the dist.

For an example of what the hunk looks like, look at the L</SUPPORT> section in this POD :)

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 all_modules

Enable this if you want to add the SUPPORT section to all the modules in a dist, not only the main one.

The default is false.

=head2 perldoc

Specify if you want the paragraph explaining about perldoc to be displayed or not.

The default is true.

=head2 bugs

Specify the bugtracker you want to use. You can use the CPAN RT tracker or your own, specified in the metadata.

Valid options are: "rt", "metadata", or "none"

If you pick the "rt" option, this module will generate a predefined block of text explaining how to use the RT system.

If you pick the "metadata" option, this module will check the L<Dist::Zilla> metadata for the bugtracker to display. Be sure
to verify that your metadata contains both 'web' and 'mailto' keys if you want to use them in the content!

The default is "rt".

=head2 bugs_content

Specify the content for the bugs section.

Please put the "{EMAIL}" and "{WEB}" placeholders somewhere!

The default is a sufficient explanation (see L</SUPPORT>).

=head2 websites

Specify what website links you want to see. This is an array, and you can pick any combination. You can also
specify it as a comma-delimited string. The ordering of the options are important, as they are reflected in
the final POD.

Valid options are: "none", "metacpan", "search", "rt", "anno", "ratings", "forum", "kwalitee", "testers", "testmatrix", "deps" and "all".

The default is "all".

	# Where the links go to:
	metacpan	- http://metacpan.org/release/$dist
	search		- http://search.cpan.org/dist/$dist
	rt		- https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=$dist
	anno		- http://annocpan.org/dist/$dist
	ratings		- http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/$dist
	forum		- http://cpanforum.com/dist/$dist
	kwalitee	- http://cpants.perl.org/dist/$dist
	testers		- http://cpantesters.org/distro/$first_char/$dist
	testmatrix	- http://matrix.cpantesters.org/?dist=$dist
	deps		- http://deps.cpantesters.org/?module=$module

	# in weaver.ini
	[Support]
	websites = search
	websites = forum
	websites = testers , testmatrix

P.S. If you know other websites that I should include here, please let me know!

=head2 websites_content

Specify the content to be displayed before the website list.

The default is a sufficient explanation (see L</SUPPORT>).

=head2 irc

Specify an IRC server/channel/nick for online support. You can specify as many networks/channels as you want.
The ordering of the options are important, as they are reflected in the final POD.

You specify a network, then a list of channels/nicks to ask for support. There are two ways to format the string:

	servername.com,#room,nick
	irc://servername.com/#room

The default is none.

	# in weaver.ini
	[Support]
	irc = irc.home.org, #support, supportbot
	irc = irc.acme.com, #acmecorp, #acmehelp, #acmenewbies

You can also add the irc information in the distribution metadata via L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Metadata>.
The key is 'x_IRC' but you have to use the irc:// format to retain compatibility with the rest of the ecosystem.

	# in dist.ini
	[Metadata]
	x_IRC = irc://irc.perl.org/#perl

=head2 irc_content

Specify the content to be displayed before the irc network/channel list.

The default is a sufficient explanation (see L</SUPPORT>).

=head2 repository_link

Specify which url to use when composing the external link.
The value corresponds to the repository meta resources (for dzil v3 with CPAN Meta v2).

Valid options are: "url", "web", "both", or "none".

"both" will include links to both the "url" and "web" in separate POD paragraphs.

"none" will skip the repository item entirely.

The default is "both".

An error will be thrown if a specified link is not found
because if you said that you wanted it you probably expect it to be there.

=head2 repository_content

Specify the content to be displayed before the link to the source code repository.

The default is a sufficient explanation (see L</SUPPORT>).

=head2 email

Specify an email address here so users can contact you directly for help.

If you supply a string without '@' in it, we assume it is a PAUSE id and mangle it into 'USER at cpan.org'.

The default is none.

=head2 email_content

Specify the content for the email section.

Please put the "{EMAIL}" placeholder somewhere!

The default is a sufficient explanation ( see L</SUPPORT>).

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Perldoc

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

  perldoc Pod::Weaver::Section::Support

=head2 Websites

The following websites have more information about this module, and may be of help to you. As always,
in addition to those websites please use your favorite search engine to discover more resources.

=over 4

=item *

MetaCPAN

A modern, open-source CPAN search engine, useful to view POD in HTML format.

L<http://metacpan.org/release/Pod-Weaver-Section-Support>

=item *

Search CPAN

The default CPAN search engine, useful to view POD in HTML format.

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Pod-Weaver-Section-Support>

=item *

RT: CPAN's Bug Tracker

The RT ( Request Tracker ) website is the default bug/issue tracking system for CPAN.

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Pod-Weaver-Section-Support>

=item *

AnnoCPAN

The AnnoCPAN is a website that allows community annotations of Perl module documentation.

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Pod-Weaver-Section-Support>

=item *

CPAN Ratings

The CPAN Ratings is a website that allows community ratings and reviews of Perl modules.

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Pod-Weaver-Section-Support>

=item *

CPAN Forum

The CPAN Forum is a web forum for discussing Perl modules.

L<http://cpanforum.com/dist/Pod-Weaver-Section-Support>

=item *

CPANTS

The CPANTS is a website that analyzes the Kwalitee ( code metrics ) of a distribution.

L<http://cpants.cpanauthors.org/dist/overview/Pod-Weaver-Section-Support>

=item *

CPAN Testers

The CPAN Testers is a network of smokers who run automated tests on uploaded CPAN distributions.

L<http://www.cpantesters.org/distro/P/Pod-Weaver-Section-Support>

=item *

CPAN Testers Matrix

The CPAN Testers Matrix is a website that provides a visual overview of the test results for a distribution on various Perls/platforms.

L<http://matrix.cpantesters.org/?dist=Pod-Weaver-Section-Support>

=item *

CPAN Testers Dependencies

The CPAN Testers Dependencies is a website that shows a chart of the test results of all dependencies for a distribution.

L<http://deps.cpantesters.org/?module=Pod::Weaver::Section::Support>

=back

=head2 Email

You can email the author of this module at C<APOCAL at cpan.org> asking for help with any problems you have.

=head2 Internet Relay Chat

You can get live help by using IRC ( Internet Relay Chat ). If you don't know what IRC is,
please read this excellent guide: L<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Relay_Chat>. Please
be courteous and patient when talking to us, as we might be busy or sleeping! You can join
those networks/channels and get help:

=over 4

=item *

irc.perl.org

You can connect to the server at 'irc.perl.org' and join this channel: #perl-help then talk to this person for help: Apocalypse.

=item *

irc.freenode.net

You can connect to the server at 'irc.freenode.net' and join this channel: #perl then talk to this person for help: Apocal.

=item *

irc.efnet.org

You can connect to the server at 'irc.efnet.org' and join this channel: #perl then talk to this person for help: Ap0cal.

=back

=head2 Bugs / Feature Requests

Please report any bugs or feature requests by email to C<bug-pod-weaver-section-support at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Pod-Weaver-Section-Support>. You will be automatically notified of any
progress on the request by the system.

=head2 Source Code

The code is open to the world, and available for you to hack on. Please feel free to browse it and play
with it, or whatever. If you want to contribute patches, please send me a diff or prod me to pull
from your repository :)

L<https://github.com/apocalypse/perl-pod-weaver-section-support>

  git clone https://github.com/apocalypse/perl-pod-weaver-section-support.git

=head1 AUTHOR

Apocalypse <APOCAL@cpan.org>

=head2 CONTRIBUTORS

=for stopwords Alex Peters Kent Fredric Randy Stauner

=over 4

=item *

Alex Peters <lxp@cpan.org>

=item *

Kent Fredric <kentfredric@gmail.com>

=item *

Randy Stauner <randy@magnificent-tears.com>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2014 by Apocalypse.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
F<LICENSE> file included with this distribution.

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY
OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM
IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE
USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF
DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD
PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS),
EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGES.

=cut
