
=pod

=head1 NAME

Subclassing - A guide to subclassing Apache2::Mogile::Dispatch

=head1 DESCRIPTION

On its own Apache2::Mogile::Dispatch won't do what you want it to. The best
way to take full advantage of its features is to subclass it to suite your
needs.

=head1 WHAT TO SUBCLASS?

=head2 mogile_key

This function returns the key used to query in mogile. In most cases it is the
request uri but for large sites or sites that span multiple hosts there is a
chance you may have conflicting urls.

=head2 get_direction

This function returns the host_config (also known as the request config) that
is used to determine if a give uri (request) is to be handled through mogile
or not.

=head2 get_config

This function returns a hash ref that configures the module. See the docs on
module configuration.

=head2 reproxy_request

This function is used to determine if a mogile handled request is filtered
through mod_include. See the example module SSI.pm for more information.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

  perldoc Apache2::Mogile::Dispatch

You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Apache2-Mogile-Dispatch>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Apache2-Mogile-Dispatch>

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Apache2-Mogile-Dispatch>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Apache2-Mogile-Dispatch>

=item * The socklabs-cpan project page

The project page: 
L<http://dev.socklabs.com/projects/cpan/>

The SVN repository:
L<http://dev.socklabs.com/svn/cpan/Apache2-Mogile-Dispatch/trunk/>

=item * MogileFS project page on Danga Interactive

L<http://www.danga.com/mogilefs/>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2006 Nick Gerakines, all rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
