=encoding utf8

=head1 Synopsis

Get basic statistical functions working in Perl as if they were part of List::Util, like C<min>, C<max>, C<sum>, etc.
I've used Artificial Intelligence tools such as Claude, Gemini, and Grok to write this as well as using my own gray matter.
There are other similar tools on CPAN, but I want speed and a form like List::Util, which I've gotten here with the help of AI, which often required many attempts to do correctly.
This is meant to call subroutines directly through eXternal Subroutines (XS) for performance and portability.

There B<are> other modules on CPAN that can do B<PARTS> of this, but this works the way that I B<want> it to.

=head1 Functions/Subroutines

========================================================================

=head2 add_data

Add data to an existing hash or array reference. This function acts as the equivalent of adding new rows, as well as an C<ljoin> (described below). It dynamically infers your target data structure, handles deeply nested records, and seamlessly coerces mismatched data shapes to preserve the structural integrity of your primary reference.

=head3 Hash of Hashes (HoH)

When the target is a Hash of Hashes, incoming hash keys update existing rows, and new keys create new rows.

 $data = { 'Jack Smith' => { age => 30 } };
 
 $n = { 
     'Jack Smith' => {    # Update existing (Hash)
         dept => 'Engineering'
      },
     'Jane Doe'   => { age => 25, dept => 'Sales' }, # Add new (Hash)
     'Invalid'    => 'Not a reference'               # Edge case safety
 };
 
 add_data($data, $n); 

B<Resulting Structure:>

 {
     "Jack Smith":  {
         "age":  30,
         "dept": "Engineering"
     },
     "Jane Doe":    {
         "age":  25,
         "dept": "Sales"
     }
 }

=head3 Hash of Arrays (HoA)

When the target is a Hash of Arrays, incoming arrays are pushed onto the existing arrays, appending the new elements, similarly to R's C<rbind>.

 $data = { 'Project Alpha' => [ 'task1', 'task2' ] };
 
 $n = {
     'Project Alpha' => [ 'task3' ],              # Appends to existing array
     'Project Beta'  => [ 'task1', 'task2' ]      # Creates new array row
 };
 
 add_data($data, $n);

B<Resulting Structure:>

 {
     "Project Alpha": [ "task1", "task2", "task3" ],
     "Project Beta":  [ "task1", "task2" ]
 }

=head3 Array of Hashes / Arrays (AoH / AoA)

C<add_data> now natively supports Array references at the root level. When targeting an Array, it iterates through the source array and merges data at the corresponding indices.

 $data = [ 
     { id => 1, name => 'Alice' } 
 ];
 
 $n = [ 
     { role => 'Admin' },             # Updates index 0
     { id => 2, name => 'Bob' }       # Creates index 1
 ];
 
 add_data($data, $n);

B<Resulting Structure:>

 [
     { "id": 1, "name": "Alice", "role": "Admin" },
     { "id": 2, "name": "Bob" }
 ]

=head3 Advanced Structural Coercion & Cross-Merging

C<add_data> strictly enforces the primary structure of your target reference (determined by inspecting its outer and inner bounds). If you mix Array and Hash types, the function automatically coerces the incoming data to match the target.

B<1. Inner Coercion (Mixing Rows):>

=over

=item * B<Target is HoH:> Source Array rows are read in pairs and converted to key-value pairs.

=item * B<Target is HoA:> Source Hash rows are flattened into key-value pairs and pushed onto the array.

=back

B<2. Root-Level Coercion (Mixing Outer Containers):>

=over

=item * B<Target is Array, Source is Hash:> The function evaluates the Hash keys as numeric indices. (e.g., source key C<"0"> merges into target array index C<[0]>). Non-numeric keys are safely ignored.

=item * B<Target is Hash, Source is Array:> The function converts the Array indices into stringified Hash keys. (e.g., source array index C<[1]> merges into target hash key C<"1">).

=back

=head3 Source is a mixed Hash. Keys dictate the target array index!

 $n = {
     '0' => { y => 20 },                 # Merges into $data->[0]
     '1' => [ 'z', 30 ],                 # Array pair coerced to Hash, creates $data->[1]
     'ignored' => { k => 'v' }           # Ignored: cannot map to an array index
 };
 
 add_data($data, $n);

B<Resulting Structure strictly remains an Array of Hashes:>

 [
     { "x": 10, "y": 20 },
     { "z": 30 }
 ]

NB: If C<add_data> is called on a completely empty target reference (e.g., C<$data = {}> or C<$data = []>), it will intelligently infer the required inner structure (Hashes vs Arrays) by inspecting the first valid row of the source data.

=head2 aov

Warning: assumes normal distribution

 aov(
 {
     yield => [5.5, 5.4, 5.8, 4.5, 4.8, 4.2],
     ctrl  => [1,     1,   1,   0,   0,   0]
 },
 'yield ~ ctrl');

which returns

 {
     ctrl        {
         Df          1,
         "F value"   25.6000000000001,
         "Mean Sq"   1.70666666666667,
         Pr(>F)      0.00718232855871859,
         "Sum Sq"    1.70666666666667
     },
     Residuals   {
         Df          4,
         "Mean Sq"   0.0666666666666665,
         "Sum Sq"    0.266666666666666
    }
 }

You can also perform Two-Way ANOVA with categorical interactions using the C<*> operator. The parser will implicitly evaluate the main effects alongside the interaction:

 my $res_2way = aov($data_2way, 'len ~ supp * dose');

It is robust against rank deficiency; collinear terms will gracefully receive 0 degrees of freedom and 0 sum of squares, matching R's behavior.

=head3 Input Parameters



=begin html

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Parameter</th>
  <th>Type</th>
  <th>Default</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <th>Example</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><code>data_sv</code></td>
  <td><code>HashRef</code> or <code>ArrayRef</code></td>
  <td><i>(Required)</i></td>
  <td>The dataset to analyze. Accepts a Hash of Arrays (HoA) or Array of Hashes (AoH). If no formula is provided, it must be an HoA to allow automatic stacking (mimicking R's <code>stack()</code> on a named list).</td>
  <td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>formula_sv</code></td>
  <td><code>String</code></td>
  <td><code>undef</code></td>
  <td>A symbolic description of the model to be fitted. If omitted, the formula automatically defaults to <code>'Value ~ Group'</code> and the input data is stacked.</td>
  <td><code>'yield ~ N * P'</code></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

=end html



=head3 Output Variables

The function returns a single C<HashRef> containing the evaluated statistical results. Because the keys map dynamically to the terms parsed from your formula, the structure will vary based on your inputs.



=begin html

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Parameter</th>
  <th>Type</th>
  <th>Default</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <th>Example</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><i>(Term Name)</i></td>
  <td><code>HashRef</code></td>
  <td><code>undef</code></td>
  <td>A nested hash for each independent term in the formula (e.g., <code>'Group'</code>, <code>'N:P'</code>), containing its ANOVA table statistics.</td>
  <td><code>{'Df' => 1, 'Sum Sq' => 14.2, 'Mean Sq' => 14.2, 'F value' => 25.81, 'Pr(>F)' => 0.0004}</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>Residuals</code></td>
  <td><code>HashRef</code></td>
  <td><code>undef</code></td>
  <td>A nested hash containing the residual (error) statistics for the fitted model.</td>
  <td><code>{'Df' => 10, 'Sum Sq' => 5.5, 'Mean Sq' => 0.55}</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>group_stats</code></td>
  <td><code>HashRef</code></td>
  <td><code>undef</code></td>
  <td>A nested hash containing descriptive statistics (<code>mean</code> and <code>size</code> / count) for every column evaluated in the original unstacked data structure.</td>
  <td><code>{'mean' => {'A' => 2.1, 'B' => 5.4}, 'size' => {'A' => 10, 'B' => 10}}</code></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

=end html



=head3 omitting formula

As of version 0.07, in the case of an omitted formula, stacking is done:

 aov(
 {
     yield => [5.5, 5.4, 5.8, 4.5, 4.8, 4.2],
     ctrl  => [1,     1,   1,   0,   0,   0]
 },
 );

is the equivalent of:

 yield <- c(5.5, 5.4, 5.8, 4.5, 4.8, 4.2)
 ctrl <- c(1,     1,   1,   0,   0,   0)
 
 # Combine them into a named list (the R equivalent of your hash)
 my_list <- list(yield = yield, ctrl = ctrl)
 
 # Convert the list into a "long" dataframe
 # This creates two columns: "values" and "ind" (the group name)
 my_data <- stack(my_list)
 
 # Rename columns for clarity (optional but good practice)
 colnames(my_data) <- c("Value", "Group")
 anova_model <- aov(Value ~ Group, data = my_data)
 summary(anova_model)

in R

=head2 chisq_test

The C<chisq_test> function performs chi-squared contingency table tests and goodness-of-fit tests. It natively accepts both arrays and hashes (1D and 2D) and mathematically mirrors R's C<chisq.test()>, returning a structured hash reference of the results.

For 2x2 matrices, Yates' Continuity Correction is applied automatically.

=head3 Accepted Inputs



=begin html

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Input Type</th>
  <th>Data Structure</th>
  <th>Applied Test</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><b>1D Array</b></td>
  <td><code>[ $v1, $v2, ... ]</code></td>
  <td>Chi-squared test for given probabilities</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>2D Array</b></td>
  <td><code>[ [ $v1, $v2 ], [ $v3, $v4 ] ]</code></td>
  <td>Pearson's Chi-squared test (Yates' correction if 2x2)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>1D Hash</b></td>
  <td><code>{ key1 => $v1, key2 => $v2 }</code></td>
  <td>Chi-squared test for given probabilities</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>2D Hash</b></td>
  <td><code>{ row1 => { c1 => $v1, c2 => $v2 } }</code></td>
  <td>Pearson's Chi-squared test (Yates' correction if 2x2)</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

=end html



=head3 Output Object Structure

The function returns a single Hash Reference containing the following key-value pairs. The internal structure of C<expected> and C<observed> will always identically match the structure of your input.



=begin html

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Key</th>
  <th>Data Type</th>
  <th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><b>data.name</b></td>
  <td>String</td>
  <td>Identifies the input type (e.g., <code>"Perl ArrayRef"</code> or <code>"Perl HashRef"</code>).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>expected</b></td>
  <td>Array/Hash Ref</td>
  <td>The expected frequencies, matching the geometry of the input.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>method</b></td>
  <td>String</td>
  <td>The specific statistical test applied.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>observed</b></td>
  <td>Array/Hash Ref</td>
  <td>The original data passed to the function.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>p.value</b></td>
  <td>Float</td>
  <td>The calculated p-value of the test.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>parameter</b></td>
  <td>Hash Ref</td>
  <td>Contains the degrees of freedom (<code>df</code>).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>statistic</b></td>
  <td>Hash Ref</td>
  <td>Contains the test statistic (<code>X-squared</code>).</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

=end html



=head3 1. Two-Dimensional Array

Passing an Array of Arrays (AoA) triggers a standard Pearson's Chi-squared test. If the input is exactly a 2x2 matrix, Yates' continuity correction is applied automatically.

 my $test_data = [
     [762, 327, 468], 
     [484, 239, 477]
 ];
 my $res = chisq_test($test_data);

B<Output:>

 {
     'data.name' => 'Perl ArrayRef',
     'expected'  => [
         [ 703.671381936888, 319.645266594124, 533.683351468988 ],
         [ 542.328618063112, 246.354733405876, 411.316648531012 ]
     ],
     'method'    => "Pearson's Chi-squared test",
     'observed'  => [
         [ 762, 327, 468 ],
         [ 484, 239, 477 ]
     ],
     'p.value'   => 2.95358918321176e-07,
     'parameter' => { 'df' => 2 },
     'statistic' => { 'X-squared' => 30.0701490957547 }
 }

=head3 2. One-Dimensional Array (Goodness of Fit)

Passing a flat Array Reference triggers a Goodness of Fit test, assuming equal expected probabilities across all items.

 my $data = [10, 20, 30];
 my $res = chisq_test($data);

B<Output:>

 {
     'data.name' => 'Perl ArrayRef',
     'expected'  => [ 20, 20, 20 ],
     'method'    => 'Chi-squared test for given probabilities',
     'observed'  => [ 10, 20, 30 ],
     'p.value'   => 0.00673794699908547,
     'parameter' => { 'df' => 2 },
     'statistic' => { 'X-squared' => 10 }
 }

=head3 3. Two-Dimensional Hash (Pearson's Chi-squared)

Passing a Hash of Hashes (HoH) applies the exact same logic as a 2D Array, but preserves your nested string keys in the output. This is particularly useful when mapping data extracted directly from JSON, databases, or categorical mappings.

 my $data = {
     GroupA => { Success => 10, Failure => 15 },
     GroupB => { Success => 20, Failure => 5  }
 };
 
 my $res = chisq_test($data);

B<Output:>

 {
     'data.name' => 'Perl HashRef',
     'expected'  => {
     'GroupA' => { 'Failure' => 10, 'Success' => 15 },
     'GroupB' => { 'Failure' => 10, 'Success' => 15 }
 },
 'method'    => "Pearson's Chi-squared test with Yates' continuity correction",
     'observed'  => {
     'GroupA' => { 'Failure' => 15, 'Success' => 10 },
     'GroupB' => { 'Failure' => 5,  'Success' => 20 }
     },
     'p.value'   => 0.00937475878430379,
     'parameter' => { 'df' => 1 },
     'statistic' => { 'X-squared' => 6.75 }
 }

=head3 4. One-Dimensional Hash (Goodness of Fit)

Flat Hash References evaluate Goodness of Fit while preserving your categorical keys in the C<expected> and C<observed> output blocks.

 my $data = { 
     Apples  => 10, 
     Oranges => 20, 
     Bananas => 30 
 };
 
 my $res = chisq_test($data);

=head2 col2col

 my $result = col2col( $data, $command );
 my $result = col2col( $data, $command, $cols );   # restrict the "from" columns

Compares B<every column against every other column> in a dataset and returns a
hash of hashes:

 $result->{ $col_a }{ $col_b }   # outcome of comparing column A with column B

The diagonal is skipped (a column is never compared with itself), so each inner
hash holds an entry for every I<other> column.

C<$data> may be given in any of three shapes — I<array of hashes>, I<hash of
arrays>, or I<hash of hashes> — and C<col2col> detects which one it received.

C<$command> is usually a B<block (anonymous sub)> that compares the two columns.
The two columns are passed to the block in C<@_>, so you read them as C<$_[0]>
and C<$_[1]>:

 my $result = col2col( \%data, sub { cor( $_[0], $_[1], 'spearman' ) } );

C<$_[0]> and C<$_[1]> are array refs holding the two columns. There are B<no
package globals>, so nothing you declare in your own script (a C<$c1>, an C<$a>,
etc.) can ever clash, and you need no C<our>/C<use vars> declarations. If you
prefer names, unpack into your own lexicals first:

 my $result = col2col( \%data, sub { my ( $c1, $c2 ) = @_; cor( $c1, $c2, 'spearman' ) } );

 > B<Pass the columns as explicit scalars.> Because the built-ins are prototyped,
 > write C<cor( $_[0], $_[1], 'spearman' )>, not C<cor( @_, 'spearman' )> — a
 > prototyped sub forces C<@_> into scalar context, collapsing it to the element
 > I<count> (C<2>) instead of the two columns. (C<&cor( @_, 'spearman' )> also works,
 > since the C<&> sigil bypasses the prototype, but the explicit form is clearer.)

As a shorthand, C<$command> may instead be a B<bare function name> (a string),
which is treated as C<fn( $col_a, $col_b )>:

 my $result = col2col( \%data, 'cor' );   # same as sub { cor( $_[0], $_[1] ) }

Whatever the block or function returns is stored verbatim.

B<Undefined values are always removed pairwise.> For each pair, any row where
I<either> column is undef or non-numeric is dropped, so the two columns are
always aligned and the same length — exactly what correlation needs, and a
sound (complete-case) basis for the two-sample tests too. If you need a column's
full set of values regardless of the other column, clean it yourself inside the
block.

=head3 Restricting which columns are compared

By default every column is compared against every other, which is C<N * (N-1)>
calls. When you only care about how one column, or a handful, relates to the
rest, pass an optional third argument: a B<column name>, or an B<array ref of
names>. Only those columns are then used as the I<first> (C<$col_a>, outer-key)
side of each comparison; each is still compared against B<every other column>.
This runs faster and returns a smaller result, because the work and the output
shrink to C<(chosen columns) * (N-1)>.

How does just "age" relate to every other column?

 my $r = col2col( $data, sub { cor( $_[0], $_[1] ) }, 'age' );
 print $r->{age}{weight}, "\n";    # only the "age" row is present
 # $r has no {height}{...} or {weight}{...} rows
 
 # A handful of columns of interest, each vs everything else
 my $r2 = col2col( $data, sub { cor( $_[0], $_[1] ) }, [ 'age', 'height' ] );
 # $r2 has exactly the {age}{...} and {height}{...} rows

The result is identical to the corresponding rows of an unrestricted run, only
the rows you didn't ask for are omitted. Naming a column that isn't in the data
is a fatal error, so typos surface immediately. Omitting the argument (or
passing C<undef>) keeps the original every-column-vs-every-column behavior.

========================================================================

=head3 array of hash input

Row-major: an array ref whose elements are hash refs (C<< $data-E<gt>[$row]{$col} >>).
Column names are the union of the keys seen across all rows.

 my $rows = [
     { height => 170, weight => 65, age => 31 },
     { height => 182, weight => 84, age => 45 },
     { height => 168, weight => 60, age => 29 },
     { height => 191, weight => 92, age => 52 },
     { height => 175, weight => 71, age => 38 },
 ];
 
 my $cor = col2col( $rows, 'cor' );
 
 print $cor->{height}{weight}, "\n";   # Pearson r between height and weight
 print $cor->{weight}{age},    "\n";

========================================================================

=head3 hash of array input

Column-major: a hash ref whose values are array refs (C<< $data-E<gt>{$col}[$row] >>).
The keys are the column names. This is the most direct shape — each value is
already a column.

 my $data = {
     height => [ 170, 182, 168, 191, 175 ],
     weight => [  65,  84,  60,  92,  71 ],
     age    => [  31,  45,  29,  52,  38 ],
 };
 
 my $cov = col2col( $data, 'cov' );
 
 print $cov->{height}{weight}, "\n";   # sample covariance

Undefined entries are skipped. For C<cor>/C<cov>/C<cor_test> they are dropped
pairwise, so the pair below is compared on its three complete rows only:

 my $data = {
     a => [ 1,      2,     3,  4,  5 ],
     b => [ 2,  undef,     6,  8, 10 ],   # row 1 dropped for any pair touching b
 };
 
 my $cor = col2col( $data, 'cor' );
 print $cor->{a}{b}, "\n";              # correlation over rows 0,2,3,4

========================================================================

=head3 hash of hash input

Row-major and keyed: a hash ref whose values are hash refs
(C<< $data-E<gt>{$row}{$col} >>). The outer keys label the rows (e.g. sample IDs); the
inner keys are the column names (the union across all rows).

 my $samples = {
     s1 => { height => 170, weight => 65, age => 31 },
     s2 => { height => 182, weight => 84, age => 45 },
     s3 => { height => 168, weight => 60, age => 29 },
     s4 => { height => 191, weight => 92, age => 52 },
     s5 => { height => 175, weight => 71, age => 38 },
 };
 
 my $cor = col2col( $samples, 'cor' );
 
 print $cor->{age}{weight}, "\n";

Because pairing is done within each row, the (unordered) row-key order does not
affect the result — all three shapes above give the same numbers.

========================================================================

=head3 Examples with different C<Stats::LikeR> functions

The same dataset can be run through any comparison function just by changing the
block. Using the hash-of-arrays C<$data> from above:

 # Correlation coefficients (Pearson) — returns a number per pair
 my $r = col2col( $data, sub { cor( $_[0], $_[1] ) } );
 print $r->{height}{weight}, "\n";
 
 # Covariance — returns a number per pair
 my $c = col2col( $data, sub { cov( $_[0], $_[1] ) } );
 
 # Correlation test — returns whatever cor_test returns
 # (e.g. estimate, statistic, p_value) for each pair
 my $ct = col2col( $data, sub { cor_test( $_[0], $_[1] ) } );
 print $ct->{height}{weight}{p_value}, "\n";
 
 # Welch two-sample t-test between every pair of columns
 my $t = col2col( $data, sub { t_test( $_[0], $_[1] ) } );
 say $t->{height}{age}{p_value};
 
 # Two-sample Kolmogorov–Smirnov test
 my $ks = col2col( $data, sub { ks_test( $_[0], $_[1] ) } );
 print $ks->{height}{age}{statistic}, "\n";
 
 # Other two-sample comparisons work the same way
 my $w  = col2col( $data, sub { wilcox_test( $_[0], $_[1] ) } );   # Wilcoxon rank-sum
 my $f  = col2col( $data, sub { var_test( $_[0], $_[1] ) } );      # F test for equal variances
 my $kw = col2col( $data, sub { kruskal_test( $_[0], $_[1] ) } );  # Kruskal–Wallis
 
 # For the no-argument case, a bare function name is a handy shorthand:
 my $r2 = col2col( $data, 'cor' );   # same as sub { cor( $_[0], $_[1] ) }

=head4 Passing arguments

Because the block is just ordinary Perl, you pass arguments exactly the way you
would call the function directly:

 # Spearman instead of the default Pearson correlation (method is cor's 3rd arg)
 my $sp = col2col( $data, sub { cor( $_[0], $_[1], 'spearman' ) } );
 
 # Whatever extra arguments a function takes, pass them inline. For example, if
 # t_test accepts a trailing paired flag, t_test($x, $y, $paired):
 my $tp = col2col( $data, sub { t_test( $_[0], $_[1], 1 ) } );
 
 # Combine results, scale them, call several functions — anything goes:
 my $scaled = col2col( $data, sub { cor( $_[0], $_[1] ) * 100 } );

=head4 Custom subroutine

The block can run any analysis you like; C<$_[0]> and C<$_[1]> are the two columns
(array refs, pairwise complete cases) and the return value is stored verbatim.

 # Mean difference between every pair of columns
 my $diff = col2col( $data, sub {
     my ( $x, $y ) = @_;
     my $mx = 0; $mx += $_ for @$x; $mx /= @$x;
     my $my = 0; $my += $_ for @$y; $my /= @$y;
     return $mx - $my;
 } );
 
 print $diff->{height}{weight}, "\n";
 
 # Wrap a built-in and post-process its result — it reads like a normal call
 my $pct = col2col( $data, sub { cor( $_[0], $_[1] ) * 100 } );

=head2 cor

 cor($array1, $array2, $method = 'pearson'),

that is, C<pearson> is the default and will be used if C<$method> is not specified.

Just like R, C<pearson>, C<spearman>, and C<kendall> are available

If you provide an array of arrays (a matrix), C<cor> will compute the correlation matrix automatically. 

=head2 cor_test

 my $result = cor_test(
         'x'         => $x,
         'y'         => $y,
         alternative => 'two.sided',
         method      => 'pearson',
         continuity  => 1
     );

C<cor_test> safely handles C<undef> (or C<NA>) values seamlessly by computing over pairwise complete observations. 

=head2 cov

 cov($array1, $array2, 'pearson')

or

 cov($array1, $array2, 'spearman')

or

 cov($array1, $array2, 'kendall')

=head2 dnorm

gives the density of the normal distribution, with the specified mean and standard deviation.

In other words, the predicted height of the value C<x>, given a mean, standard deviation, and whether or not to use a log value.

returns a single scalar/number if a single value is given, otherwise returns an array reference.

Usage:

 dnorm(4) # assumes a mean of 0 and standard deviation of 1

but default mean, standard deviation, and log can be passed as parameters:

 $x = dnorm(0, mean => 0, sd => 2, 'log' => 0);

=head2 fisher_test

=head3 array reference entry

 my $array_data = [
     [10, 2],
     [3, 15]
 ];
 my $res1 = fisher_test($array_data);

which returns a hash reference:

 {
 alternative   "two.sided",
 conf_int      [
     [0] 2.75338278824932,
     [1] 301.462337971516
 ],
 estimate      {
     "odds ratio"   21.3053175567504
 },
 method        "Fisher's Exact Test for Count Data",
 p_value       0.00053672411914343
 }

=head3 hash reference entry

 $ft = fisher_test( {
     Guess => {
         Milk => 3, Tea => 1
     },
     Truth => {
         Milk => 1, Tea => 3
     }
 });

I have the p-value calculated very precisely, but there are some inexactness (approximately 1% for the confidence intervals) which I couldn't rectify.  The answers are very close to R besides the p-value, where they are identical.

=head2 glm

takes a hash of an array as input

 my %tooth_growth = (
     dose => [qw(0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0
 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
 0.5 0.5 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0
 2.0 2.0 2.0)],
     len  => [qw(4.2 11.5  7.3  5.8  6.4 10.0 11.2 11.2  5.2  7.0 16.5 16.5 15.2 17.3 22.5
 17.3 13.6 14.5 18.8 15.5 23.6 18.5 33.9 25.5 26.4 32.5 26.7 21.5 23.3 29.5
 15.2 21.5 17.6  9.7 14.5 10.0  8.2  9.4 16.5  9.7 19.7 23.3 23.6 26.4 20.0
 25.2 25.8 21.2 14.5 27.3 25.5 26.4 22.4 24.5 24.8 30.9 26.4 27.3 29.4 23.0)],
     supp => [qw(VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC
 VC VC VC VC VC OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ
 OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ OJ)]
 );
 
 my $glm_teeth = glm(
     data    => \%tooth_growth,
     formula => 'len ~ dose + supp',
     family  => 'gaussian'
 );

In addition to the C<gaussian> default, it fully supports logistic regression using the C<binomial> family parameter via Iteratively Reweighted Least Squares (IRLS):

 my $glm_bin = glm(formula => 'am ~ wt + hp', data => \%mtcars, family => 'binomial');

=head3 Input Parameters



=begin html

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Parameter</th>
  <th>Type</th>
  <th>Default</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <th>Example</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><code>formula</code></td>
  <td><code>String</code></td>
  <td><i>None (Required)</i></td>
  <td>A symbolic description of the model to be fitted. Supports operators like <code>+</code>, <code>:</code>, <code>*</code>, <code>^</code>, and <code>-1</code> (to remove the intercept).</td>
  <td><code>'am ~ wt + hp'</code>, <code>'y ~ x - 1'</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>data</code></td>
  <td><code>HashRef</code> or <code>ArrayRef</code></td>
  <td><i>None (Required)</i></td>
  <td>The dataset containing the variables used in the formula. Accepts either a Hash of Arrays (HoA) or an Array of Hashes (AoH).</td>
  <td><code>\%mtcars</code>, <code>[{x => 1, y => 2}, ...]</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>family</code></td>
  <td><code>String</code></td>
  <td><code>'gaussian'</code></td>
  <td>A description of the error distribution and link function to be used in the model. Currently supports <code>'gaussian'</code> (identity link) and <code>'binomial'</code> (logit link).</td>
  <td><code>'binomial'</code></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

=end html



=head3 Output variables



=begin html

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Variable</th>
  <th>Type</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <th>Example</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><code>aic</code></td>
  <td><code>Double</code></td>
  <td>Akaike's Information Criterion for the fitted model.</td>
  <td><code>123.45</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>boundary</code></td>
  <td><code>Integer (Boolean)</code></td>
  <td><code>1</code> if the fitted values computationally reached the <code>0</code> or <code>1</code> boundary (specific to the binomial family), <code>0</code> otherwise.</td>
  <td><code>0</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>coefficients</code></td>
  <td><code>HashRef</code></td>
  <td>A hash mapping the expanded model term names to their estimated coefficient values.</td>
  <td><code>{'Intercept' => 1.5, 'wt' => -0.5}</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>converged</code></td>
  <td><code>Integer (Boolean)</code></td>
  <td><code>1</code> if the Iteratively Reweighted Least Squares (IRLS) algorithm converged within the maximum iterations, <code>0</code> otherwise.</td>
  <td><code>1</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>deviance</code></td>
  <td><code>Double</code></td>
  <td>The residual deviance of the fitted model.</td>
  <td><code>15.2</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>deviance.resid</code></td>
  <td><code>HashRef</code></td>
  <td>A hash mapping data row names to their computed deviance residuals.</td>
  <td><code>{'Mazda RX4' => 0.12}</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>df.null</code></td>
  <td><code>Integer</code></td>
  <td>The residual degrees of freedom for the null model.</td>
  <td><code>31</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>df.residual</code></td>
  <td><code>Integer</code></td>
  <td>The residual degrees of freedom for the fitted model.</td>
  <td><code>30</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>family</code></td>
  <td><code>String</code></td>
  <td>The statistical family used to fit the model.</td>
  <td><code>"gaussian"</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>fitted.values</code></td>
  <td><code>HashRef</code></td>
  <td>A hash mapping data row names to the fitted mean values (the model's predictions on the scale of the response).</td>
  <td><code>{'Mazda RX4' => 0.85}</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>iter</code></td>
  <td><code>Integer</code></td>
  <td>The number of IRLS iterations performed before convergence or hitting the iteration limit.</td>
  <td><code>4</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>null.deviance</code></td>
  <td><code>Double</code></td>
  <td>The deviance for the null model (a baseline model containing only an intercept, or an offset of 0 if the intercept is removed).</td>
  <td><code>43.5</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>rank</code></td>
  <td><code>Integer</code></td>
  <td>The numeric rank of the fitted linear model (the number of estimated, non-aliased parameters).</td>
  <td><code>2</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>summary</code></td>
  <td><code>HashRef</code></td>
  <td>A nested hash mapping each term to its detailed summary statistics, including <code>Estimate</code>, <code>Std. Error</code>, <code>t value</code> / <code>z value</code>, and <code>Pr(> t )</code> / <code>Pr(> z )</code>. Aliased parameters return <code>"NaN"</code>.</td>
  <td><code>{'wt' => {'Estimate' => -0.5, 'Std. Error' => 0.1, ...}}</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>terms</code></td>
  <td><code>ArrayRef</code></td>
  <td>An ordered list of the expanded term names included in the model matrix.</td>
  <td><code>['Intercept', 'wt', 'hp']</code></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

=end html



=head2 group_by

Take a hash of arrays, hash of hashes, or array of hashes, and group a column by another column.

 my $aoh_data = [
     { 'Gender' => 'Male',   'Testosterone, total (nmol/L)' => 20.5 },
     { 'Gender' => 'Female', 'Testosterone, total (nmol/L)' => 1.8 },
     { 'Gender' => 'Male',   'Testosterone, total (nmol/L)' => 18.2 },
     { 'Gender' => 'Female' } # Intentional missing target value
 ];

as well as

 $hoh_data = {
     'Patient_A' => { 'Gender' => 'Male',   'Testosterone, total (nmol/L)' => 20.5 },
     'Patient_B' => { 'Gender' => 'Female', 'Testosterone, total (nmol/L)' => 1.8 },
     'Patient_C' => { 'Gender' => 'Male',   'Testosterone, total (nmol/L)' => 18.2 },
     'Patient_D' => { 'Gender' => 'Female' }, # Intentional missing target value
     'Patient_E' => { 'Gender' => 'Female', 'Testosterone, total (nmol/L)' => undef } # Explicit undef
     };

and

 my $hoa_data = {
     'Gender'                       => ['Male', 'Female', 'Male', 'Female'],
     'Testosterone, total (nmol/L)' => [22.1,   2.5,      19.4,   undef   ]
 };

then run the function thus:

 group_by( $hoa_data, 'Testosterone, total (nmol/L)', 'Gender');

The output can be thought of like a hash, with the first string broken down by the second.

all become hash of arrays:

 {
     Female   [
         [0] 1.8
     ],
     Male     [
         [0] 18.2,
         [1] 20.5
     ]
 }

returns an empty array of hashes if neither target nor group keys are found.

=head3 Filtering

Data can be further broken down with filter/subs like in C<read_table>:

 my $testosterone = group_by($d, # group testosterone by "Gender"
     'Testosterone, total (nmol/L)',
     'Gender',
     { 'Race/Hispanic origin w/ NH Asian' => sub { $_ eq $n } },# filter
     { 'Testosterone, total (nmol/L)' => sub { $_ ne 'NA' } } # filter
 );

where each filter filters on the columns, e.g. second hash keys.

=head2 hist

Computes the histogram of the given data values, operating in single $O(N)$ pass performance. It returns the bin counts, computed breaks, midpoints, and density. 

 my $res = hist([1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 3, 4, 4, 5], breaks => 4);

If C<breaks> is not explicitly provided, it defaults to calculating the number of bins using Sturges' formula.

=head2 kruskal_test

Essentially the test determines if all groups have the same median (same distribution) (an excellent review is at https://library.virginia.edu/data/articles/getting-started-with-the-kruskal-wallis-test)

Performs a Kruskal-Wallis rank sum test, see 
https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/stats/versions/3.6.2/topics/kruskal.test

=head3 hash of array entry

I feel that this is better, and more easily read, than what you get in R:

 my %x = (
 'normal.subjects' => [2.9, 3.0, 2.5, 2.6, 3.2],
 'obs. airway disease' => [3.8, 2.7, 4.0, 2.4],
 'asbestosis' => [2.8, 3.4, 3.7, 2.2, 2.0]
 );
 $kt = kruskal_test(\%x);

=head3 R-like array entry

 my @xk = (2.9, 3.0, 2.5, 2.6, 3.2); # normal subjects
 my @yk = (3.8, 2.7, 4.0, 2.4);      # with obstructive airway disease
 my @zk = (2.8, 3.4, 3.7, 2.2, 2.0); # with asbestosis
 my @x = (@xk, @yk, @zk);
 my @g = (
     (map {'Normal subjects'} 0..4),
     (map {'Subjects with obstructive airway disease'} 0..3),
     map {'Subjects with asbestosis'} 0..4
 );
 my $kt = kruskal_test(\@x, \@g);

=head2 ks_test

The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, which tests whether or not two arrays/lists of data are part of the same distribution is implemented simply:

 $ks = ks_test(\@x, \@y, alternative => 'greater');

returning a hash reference.

Also, a single array can be tested against a normal distribution:

 $ks = ks_test($ksx, 'pnorm');

The p-value precision is about 1e-8, which I want to improve, but am not sure how.

=head2 ljoin

Consider a hash: C<$h{$row}{$col}>, and another hash C<$i{$row}{$col}>.
C<ljoin> will add information for C<$col> in C<%i> for each C<$row> to C<%h>, where C<$row> exists in both C<%h> and C<%i>

For example,

 {
 "Jack Smith"   {
     age   30
 }
 }

and a second hash,
    {
        "Jack Smith"   {
            dept   "Engineering"
        },
        "Jane Doe"     {
            age   25
        }
    }

in this case, running C<ljoin(\%h, \%i)> will modify \%h to result:

 {
 "Jack Smith"   {
     age    30,
     dept   "Engineering"
 }
 }

=head2 lm

This is the linear models function.

 $lm = lm(formula =>  'mpg ~ wt + hp', data => $mtcars);

where C<$mtcars> is a hash of hashes

C<lm> also supports generating interaction terms directly within the formula using the C<*> operator:

 my $lm = lm(formula => 'mpg ~ wt * hp^2', data => \%mtcars);

If your data contains missing numbers (C<NA> or C<undef>), C<lm> handles listwise deletion dynamically to ensure mathematical integrity before fitting.

the dot operator also works:

 $lm = lm(formula => 'y ~ .', data => $dot_data);

=head2 matrix

 my $mat1 = matrix(
     data => [1..6],
     nrow => 2
 );

You can also pass C<< byrow =E<gt> 1 >> if you want the matrix populated row-wise instead of column-wise.

As of version 0.10, parameters do not need to be named, so that C<matrix> works more like R:

 my $d = matrix(rnorm(32000), 1000, 32);

works as C<data>, C<nrow>, and C<ncol>

=head2 max

 max(1,2,3);

or

 my @arr = 1..8;
 max(@arr, 4, 5)

as of version 0.02, max will die if any undefined values are provided

=head2 mean

 mean(1,2,3);

or

 my @arr = 1..8;
 mean(@arr, 4, 5)

or

 mean([1,1], [2,2]) # 1.5

as of version 0.02, mean will die if any undefined values are provided

=head2 median

works like mean, taking array references and arrays:

 median( $test_data[$i][0] )

as of version 0.02, median will die if any undefined values are provided

=head2 min

 min(1,2,3);

or

 my @arr = 1..8;
 min(@arr, 4, 5)

as of version 0.02, min will die if any undefined values are provided

=head2 mode

Takes either an array or an array reference, and returns an array of the most common scalars (numbers or strings)

 @arr = mode([1,3,3,3]); # returns (3)
 
 @arr = mode('a','a','c','c','z'); # returns ('a', 'c')

=head2 oneway_test

Like ANOVA/aov but does not assume normality

=head3 hash of array input

 $test_data = oneway_test({
     yield => [5.5, 5.4, 5.8, 4.5, 4.8, 4.2],
     ctrl  => [1,     1,   1,   0,   0,   0]
 });

which will output a hash reference:

 {
 Group         {
     Df          1,
     "F value"   177.504798464491,
     "Mean Sq"   61.6533333333333,
     Pr(>F)      1.31343255160843e-07,
     "Sum Sq"    61.6533333333333
 },
 group_stats   {
     mean   {
         ctrl    0.5,
         yield   5.03333333333333
     },
     size   {
         ctrl    6,
         yield   6
     }
 },
 Residuals     {
     Df          9.81767348326473,
     "Mean Sq"   0.353783749200256,
     "Sum Sq"    3.47333333333333
 }

}

=head3 array of array input

 oneway_test([
    [5.5, 5.4, 5.8, 4.5, 4.8, 4.2],
    [1,     1,   1,   0,   0,   0]
     ]);

which will output a nearly identical hash reference as for hash of arrays:

 {
 Group         {
     Df          1,
     "F value"   177.504798464491,
     "Mean Sq"   61.6533333333333,
     Pr(>F)      1.31343255160843e-07,
     "Sum Sq"    61.6533333333333
 },
 group_stats   {
     mean   {
         "Index 0"   5.03333333333333,
         "Index 1"   0.5
     },
     size   {
         "Index 0"   6,
         "Index 1"   6
     }
 },
 Residuals     {
     Df          9.81767348326473,
     "Mean Sq"   0.353783749200256,
     "Sum Sq"    3.47333333333333
 }
 }

=head2 p_adjust

Returns array of false-discovery-rate-corrected p-values, where methods available are "holm", "hochberg", "hommel", "bonferroni", "BH", "BY", "fdr"

 my @q = p_adjust(\@pvalues, $method);

=head2 power_t_test

 $test_data = power_t_test(
     n   => 30,  delta     => 0.5, 
     sd  => 1.0, sig_level => 0.05
 );

It also allows configuring the test type (C<< type =E<gt> 'one.sample' >>, C<'two.sample'>, C<'paired'>) and alternative hypothesis (C<< alternative =E<gt> 'one.sided' >>). You can also pass C<< strict =E<gt> 1 >> to strictly evaluate both tails of the distribution.



=begin html

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Parameter</th>
  <th>Type</th>
  <th>Default</th>
  <th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><code>n</code></td>
  <td>Float</td>
  <td><code>undef</code></td>
  <td>Number of observations (per group for two-sample, pairs for paired).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>delta</code></td>
  <td>Float</td>
  <td><code>undef</code></td>
  <td>True difference in means.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>sd</code></td>
  <td>Float</td>
  <td>1.0</td>
  <td>Standard deviation.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>sig_level</code></td>
  <td>Float</td>
  <td>0.05</td>
  <td>Significance level (Type I error probability). Also accepts <code>sig.level</code>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>power</code></td>
  <td>Float</td>
  <td><code>undef</code></td>
  <td>Power of test (1 minus Type II error probability).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>type</code></td>
  <td>String</td>
  <td><code>"two.sample"</code></td>
  <td>Type of t-test: <code>"two.sample"</code>, <code>"one.sample"</code>, or <code>"paired"</code>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>alternative</code></td>
  <td>String</td>
  <td><code>"two.sided"</code></td>
  <td>One- or two-sided test: <code>"two.sided"</code>, <code>"one.sided"</code>, <code>"greater"</code>, or <code>"less"</code>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>strict</code></td>
  <td>Boolean</td>
  <td>0 (False)</td>
  <td>Use strict interpretation of two-sided power calculations.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>tol</code></td>
  <td>Float</td>
  <td>~<code>1.22e-4</code></td>
  <td>Numerical tolerance used for the internal root-finding algorithm.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

=end html



=head2 prcomp

Principal Component Analysis

=head3 Options



=begin html

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Option</th>
  <th>Type</th>
  <th>Default</th>
  <th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><code>center</code></td>
  <td>Boolean</td>
  <td><code>1</code> (True)</td>
  <td>If true, the variables are shifted to be zero-centered before the analysis takes place.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>scale</code></td>
  <td>Boolean</td>
  <td><code>0</code> (False)</td>
  <td>If true, the variables are scaled to have unit variance before the analysis takes place. <i>Note: If a column has zero variance, the function will <code>croak</code> to prevent division by zero.</i></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>retx</code></td>
  <td>Boolean</td>
  <td><code>1</code> (True)</td>
  <td>If true, the rotated data (the original data multiplied by the rotation matrix) is returned under the key <code>x</code>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>tol</code></td>
  <td>Number</td>
  <td><code>undef</code></td>
  <td>A value indicating the magnitude below which components should be omitted. Components are omitted if their standard deviation is less than or equal to <code>tol</code> times the standard deviation of the first component.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>rank</code></td>
  <td>Integer</td>
  <td><code>undef</code></td>
  <td>Optionally specify a strict limit on the number of principal components to return. The function will return <code>min(rank, rows, columns)</code> components.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

=end html



=head3 Results

=head4 Returned Data Structure

The C<prcomp> function returns a HashRef containing the following keys representing the results of the Principal Component Analysis:



=begin html

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Key</th>
  <th>Type</th>
  <th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><code>sdev</code></td>
  <td>ArrayRef[Number]</td>
  <td>The standard deviations of the principal components. Mathematically, these are the square roots of the eigenvalues of the covariance matrix.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>rotation</code></td>
  <td>ArrayRef[ArrayRef]</td>
  <td>A 2D array representing the matrix of variable loadings (the eigenvectors). Each inner array represents a row, and the columns correspond to the principal components.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>x</code></td>
  <td>ArrayRef[ArrayRef]</td>
  <td>A 2D array containing the rotated data (often referred to as PCA scores). This is the original data projected onto the principal components. <i>Note: Only present if the <code>retx</code> option is true.</i></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>center</code></td>
  <td>ArrayRef[Number] or <code>0</code></td>
  <td>The centering values used (typically the column means). Returns false (<code>0</code>) if centering was disabled.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>scale</code></td>
  <td>ArrayRef[Number] or <code>0</code></td>
  <td>The scaling values used (typically the column standard deviations). Returns false (<code>0</code>) if scaling was disabled.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>varnames</code></td>
  <td>ArrayRef[String]</td>
  <td>The sorted names of the original variables. <i>Note: Only present if the input data was a Hash of Arrays (HoA) or a Hash of Hashes (HoH).</i></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

=end html



=head3 Using array of arrays

 my $aoa = [ 
     [2, 4], 
     [4, 2], 
     [6, 6] 
 ];
 
 my $pca = prcomp($aoa);

which returns

 {
     center     [
         [0] 4,
         [1] 4
     ],
     rotation   [
         [0] [
                 [0] 0.707106781186547,
                 [1] 0.707106781186548
             ],
         [1] [
                 [0] 0.707106781186548,
                 [1] -0.707106781186547
             ]
     ],
     scale      0,
     sdev       [
         [0] 2.44948974278318,
         [1] 1.4142135623731
     ],
     x          [
         [0] [
                 [0] -1.41421356237309,
                 [1] -1.4142135623731
             ],
         [1] [
                 [0] -1.4142135623731,
                 [1] 1.41421356237309
             ],
         [2] [
                 [0] 2.82842712474619,
                 [1] 2.22044604925031e-16
             ]
     ]
 }

=head3 Hash of Arrays

 my $hoa = { B => [4, 2, 6], A => [2, 4, 6] };
 my $pca = prcomp($hoa);

=head2 quantile

Calculates sample quantiles using R's continuous Type 7 interpolation. 

 my $quantile = quantile('x' => [1..99], probs => [0.05, 0.1, 0.25]);

If the C<probs> parameter is omitted, it behaves identically to R by defaulting to the 0, 25, 50, 75, and 100 percentiles (C<c(0, .25, .5, .75, 1)>). The returned hash keys match R's standardized naming convention (e.g., C<"25%">, C<"33.3%">).

=head2 rbinom

Create a binomial distribution of numbers

 my $binom = rbinom( n => $n, prob => 0.5, size => 9);

It hooks directly into Perl's internal PRNG system, respecting C<srand()> seeds. 

=head2 read_table

I've tried to make this as simple as possible, trying to follow from R:

 my $test_data = read_table('t/HepatitisCdata.csv');

=head3 options



=begin html

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Option</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <th>Example</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><code>comment</code></td>
  <td>Comment character, by default <code>#</code></td>
  <td><code>comment = %</code> or whatever</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>output.type</code></td>
  <td>data type for output: array of hash, hash of array, or hash of hash</td>
  <td><code>'output.type' => 'aoh'</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>filter</code></td>
  <td>Only take in rows with a certain filter</td>
  <td><code>filter => {	Sex => sub {$_ eq 'f'} }</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>row.names</code></td>
  <td>include row names in retrieved data; off by default</td>
  <td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>sep</code></td>
  <td>field separator character; synonym with <code>delim</code></td>
  <td><code>sep => "\t"</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>delim</code></td>
  <td>field separator character; synonym with <code>sep</code></td>
  <td><code>delim => "\t"</code></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

=end html



output types can be AOH (aoa), HOA (hoa), HOH (hoh)

 read_table($filename, 'output.type' => 'aoh');
 
 read_table($filename, 'output.type' => 'hoa');

and, like Text::CSV_XS, filters can be applied in order to save RAM on big files:

 $test_data = read_table(
     't/HepatitisCdata.csv',
     filter => {
         Sex => sub {$_ eq 'f'} # where "Sex" is the column name, and "$_" is the value for that column
     },
     'output.type' => 'aoh'
 );

the default delimiter is C<,>
Suffixes C<.csv> and C<.tsv> are automatically detected from file names, but if specified, are overridden by C<delim> and/or C<sep>. C<sep> is given priority.

=head2 rnorm

Make a normal distribution of numbers, with pre-set mean C<mean>, standard deviation C<sd>, and number C<n>.

 my ($rmean, $sd, $n) = (10, 2, 9999);
 my $normals = rnorm( n => $n, mean => $rmean, sd => $sd);

=head2 runif

Make an approximately uniform distribution into an array

=head3 named arguments

 my $unif = runif( n => $n, min => 0, max => 1);

where C<n> is the number of items, the values are between C<min> and C<max>

=head3 positional args

this is to match R's behavior:

 runif( 9 )

will make 9 numbers in [0,1]

 runif(9, 0, 99)

will match C<n>, C<min>, and C<max> respectively

=head2 sample

take a sample of hash or array slices.

 my $h = sample(\%h, 4); # take 4 hash keys and their values into $h

or, alternatively, with arrays:

 my $arr = sample(\@arr, 3); # take 3 indices of an array

=head2 scale

 my @scaled_results = scale(1..5);

You can also pass an options hash to disable centering or scaling:

 my @scaled_results = scale(1..5, { center => false, scale => 1 });

It fully supports matrix operations. By passing an array of arrays, C<scale> processes the data column by column independently:

 my $scaled_mat = scale([[1, 2], [3, 4], [5, 6]]);

=head2 sd

 my $stdev = sd(2,4,4,4,5,5,7,9);

Correct answer is 2.1380899352994

C<sd> can accept both array references as well as arrays:

 my $stdev = sd([2,4,4,4,5,5,7,9]);

As of version 0.02, sd will croak/die if any undefined values are provided.

=head2 seq

Works as closely as I can to R's seq, which is very similar to Perl's C<for> loops.  Returns an array, not an array reference.

=head3 Standard integer sequence

 say 'seq(1, 5):';
 my @seq = seq(1, 5);
 say join(', ', @seq), "\n";
 
 say 'seq(1, 2, 0.25):';
 @seq = seq(1, 2, 0.25);

=head3 Fractional steps

 say 'seq(1, 2, 0.25):';
 @seq = seq(1, 2, 0.25);
 say join(", ", @seq), "\n";
 for (my $idx = 2; $idx >= 1; $idx -= 0.25) { # count down to pop
     is_approx(pop @seq, $idx, "seq item $idx with fractional step");
 }

=head3 Negative steps

 say 'seq(10, 5, -1):';
 @seq = seq(10, 5, -1);
 say join(", ", @seq), "\n";
 for (my $idx = 5; $idx <= 10; $idx++) { # count down to pop
     is_approx(pop @seq, $idx, "seq item $idx with negative step");
 }

=head2 shapiro_test

tests to see if an array reference is normally distributed, returns a p-value and a statistic

 my $shapiro = shapiro_test(
     [1..5]
 );

and returns the hash reference:

 {
 p.value     0.589650577093106,
 p_value     0.589650577093106,
 statistic   0.960870680168535,
 W           0.960870680168535
 }

=head2 sum

returns sum, but using both arrays and array references.

 my $test_data = [1..8];
 sum($test_data)

which I prefer, compared to List::Util's required casting into an array:

 sum(@{ $test_data });

which passing a reference is shorter and much easier to read.  Stats::LikeR, however, will work for B<both>

as of version 0.02, C<sum> will cause the script to die if any undefined values are provided

=head2 summary

Analogous to R's C<summary>, but does not deal with outputs from other functions.
C<summary> only describes data as it is entered.
An option C<nrows> or its synonym C<nrow> specifies the maximum number of rows that will print.

=head3 array of array input

 my @arr;
 foreach my $i (0..18) {
     push @arr, runif(22);
 }

and then C<summary(\@arr)>, or C<summary(@arr)>

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Index  # values      Min.   1st Qu.    Median      Mean   3rd Qu.      Max. 
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
      0       22   0.04312     0.286    0.4975    0.5121    0.7296    0.9633 
      1       22   0.05932    0.1483     0.495    0.4737    0.7699    0.9371 
      2       22   0.02742    0.1588    0.4045    0.4325    0.6682    0.9878 
      3       22  0.009233    0.2552    0.5398    0.5147    0.7755    0.9808 
      4       22   0.06727    0.2432    0.5019    0.4855    0.7121    0.9043 
      5       22  0.001032    0.1646    0.3021    0.3727    0.5704    0.9556 

=head3 hash of array input

 $test_data = summary(
     {
         A => runif(9),
         B => runif(9)
     },
 );

=head2 t_test

There are 1-sample and 2-sample t-tests, from one or two arrays:

 my $t_test = t_test( $array1, mu => 0.2334 );

or 2-sample:

 $t_test = t_test(
     $array1,    $array2,
     paired => 1
 );

returns a hash reference, which looks like:

 conf_int     => [
     -0.06672889, 0.25672889
 ],
 df        => 5,
 estimate  => 0.095,
 p_value   => 0.19143688433660,
 statistic => 1.50996688705414

the two groups compared can be specified, though not necessarily, as C<x> and C<y>, just like in R:

 $t_test = t_test(
     'x' => $array1, 'y' => $array2,
     paired => 1
 );

=head3 Parameters



=begin html

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Parameter</th>
  <th>Type</th>
  <th>Default</th>
  <th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><code>x</code></td>
  <td>Array Reference</td>
  <td>Required</td>
  <td>The first vector of data. Must contain at least 2 elements.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>y</code></td>
  <td>Array Reference</td>
  <td><code>undef</code></td>
  <td>The second vector of data. Required for two-sample or paired tests.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>mu</code></td>
  <td>Float</td>
  <td>0.0</td>
  <td>The true value of the mean (or difference in means) for the null hypothesis.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>paired</code></td>
  <td>Boolean</td>
  <td><code>FALSE</code></td>
  <td>If true, performs a paired t-test. <code>x</code> and <code>y</code> must be the same length.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>var_equal</code></td>
  <td>Boolean</td>
  <td><code>FALSE</code></td>
  <td>If true, assumes equal variances (standard two-sample). If false, performs Welch's t-test with unequal variances.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>conf_level</code></td>
  <td>Float</td>
  <td>0.95</td>
  <td>Confidence level for the returned confidence interval. Must be between 0 and 1.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>alternative</code></td>
  <td>String</td>
  <td><code>"two.sided"</code></td>
  <td>Direction of the alternative hypothesis: <code>"two.sided"</code>, <code>"less"</code>, or <code>"greater"</code>.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

=end html



=head3 Return Hash



=begin html

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Key</th>
  <th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><code>statistic</code></td>
  <td>The computed t-statistic.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>df</code></td>
  <td>Degrees of freedom for the test.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>p_value</code></td>
  <td>The calculated p-value based on the test directionality.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>conf_int</code></td>
  <td>An Array Reference containing two elements: <code>[lower_bound, upper_bound]</code>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>estimate</code></td>
  <td>The estimated mean of <code>x</code> (one-sample) OR the mean of the differences (paired).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>estimate_x</code></td>
  <td>The estimated mean of the <code>x</code> vector (only returned in two-sample tests).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>estimate_y</code></td>
  <td>The estimated mean of the <code>y</code> vector (only returned in two-sample tests).</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

=end html



=head2 transpose

Transposes a two-dimensional data structure, swapping rows and columns. Accepts either an array of arrays or a hash of hashes.
Returns a new reference of the same type; the input is never modified.

=head3 Array of array input

Takes a reference to an array of array references and returns a new AoA where C<output[j][i] = input[i][j]>.

 my $matrix = [[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]];
 my $t = transpose($matrix);
 # [[1, 4],
 #  [2, 5],
 #  [3, 6]]

All rows must be the same length; a ragged input is a fatal error.
C<undef> is valid as an element value and is preserved exactly. An empty outer array or an array of empty rows both return C<[]>.

Dies if:
- any inner element is not an array reference
- rows differ in length (ragged array)

=head3 Hash of hash input

Takes a reference to a hash of hash references and returns a new HoH where C<output{col}{row} = input{row}{col}>.

 my $table = { alice => { score => 97, grade => 'A' }, bob   => { score => 84, grade => 'B' } };
 my $t = transpose($table);
 # { score => { alice => 97,  bob => 84  },
 #   grade => { alice => 'A', bob => 'B' } }

Inner keys do not need to be uniform across rows. If a given column key appears in only some rows, the output hash for that column will simply contain only those rows — no padding or C<undef>-filling is performed.

 my $sparse = {
 a => { x => 1, y => 2 },
 b => { x => 3, z => 4 } };
 
 my $t = transpose($sparse);
 # { x => { a => 1, b => 3 },
 #   y => { a => 2 },
 #   z => { b => 4 } }

An empty outer hash or an outer hash whose inner hashes are all empty both return C<{}>.

Dies if any inner element is not a hash reference

=head2 value_counts

Count the values in a given data set, return a hash reference showing how many times each particular value is present.

=head3 Scalar

 $hash = value_counts('c');

returns C<< { c =E<gt> 1 } >>

=head3 Array reference

 value_counts(['a','b','b']);

returns C<< { a =E<gt> 1, b =E<gt> 2} >>

=head3 Array

 my $value_counts = value_counts('a','b','b');

like an array reference above, returns C<< { a =E<gt> 1, b =E<gt> 2} >>

=head3 Hash

 my $value_counts = value_counts( { A => 'a', B => 'a', C => 'b' } );

returns C<< { a =E<gt> 2, b =E<gt> 1} >>

=head3 Hash of array

 my $value_counts = value_counts({ 'a' => ['j', 't', 't'], 'b' => ['j', 't', 'v']});

without a key (like above), the occurences of C<j>, C<t>, and C<v> are counted.

With a key, like C<a> for above, only values within that hash key are counted:

 my $vc = value_counts({ 'a' => ['j', 't', 't'], 'b' => ['j', 't', 'v']}, 'a');

=head3 Hash of hash (table)

 $hash = value_counts( {
     A => {
         a => 'x',
         b => 'z'
     },
     B => {
         a => 'x'
     },
     C => {
         a => 'y'
     }
 }, 'a');

the column, or second hash key, that you wish to count, is specified at the command line

=head2 var

as simple as possible:

 var(2, 4, 5, 8, 9)

as of version 0.02, C<var> will die if any undefined values are provided

like C<min>, C<max>, etc., C<var> can accept array references, to make code simpler:

 my $ref = \@arr;
 var($ref) = var(@arr)

=head2 var_test

As described by R: Performs an F test to compare the variances of two samples from normal populations

 use Stats::LikeR;
 
 my @x = (2.9, 3.0, 2.5, 2.6, 3.2);
 my @y = (3.8, 2.7, 4.0, 2.4);
 
 my $vt = var_test(\@x, \@y);

also, conf_level can be set:

 $vt = var_test(\@x, \@y, conf_level => 0.99);

as well as a ratio (from R: the hypothesized ratio of the population variances of C<x> and C<y>:

 $test_data = var_test(\@xk, \@yk, ratio => 2);

=head2 wilcox_test

 $test_data = wilcox_test(
     [1.83,  0.50,  1.62,  2.48, 1.68, 1.88, 1.55, 3.06, 1.30],
     [0.878, 0.647, 0.598, 2.05, 1.06, 1.29, 1.06, 3.14, 1.29]
 );

It fully supports paired tests (C<< paired =E<gt> 1 >>) and can calculate exact p-values (the default for C<< N E<lt> 50 >> without ties). If ties are encountered, it automatically switches to an approximation with continuity correction.

=head2 write_table

mimics R's C<write.table>, with data as first argument to subroutine, and output file as second

 write_table(\@data_aoh, $tmp_file, sep => "\t", 'row.names' => 1);

You can also precisely filter and reorder which columns are written by passing an array reference to C<col.names>:

 write_table(\@data, $tmp_file, sep => "\t", 'col.names' => ['c', 'a']);

undefined variables are printed as C<NA> by default, but can be set as you wish using C<undef.val>

 write_table(\%data_hoa, '/tmp/undef.val.tsv', sep => "\t", 'undef.val' => 'nan')

as of version 0.07, C<write_table> determines comma and tab-separated delimiters from the filename, but will override if C<sep> or C<delim> are explicitly set.

Args can also be accepted:

 write_table( 'data' => \%flat, 'file' => $f );

=head1 changes

=head2 0.12

C<add_data> can also take hash of arrays, and various mixes of data types

C<ljoin>: Addition of C<restrict> keywords in many places; should improve CPU performance

Better POD formatting, correction of output hash for README's C<add_data>

C<chisq_test> can now accept hash of hashes as input

new C<transpose> function for switching 2D hash keys and 2D array indices, and C<col2col> for comparing columns against columns

removed unused function from C helpers

C<value_counts>: addition of restrict keywords in preinit, should improve CPU performance

MANIFEST.skip changed to MANIFEST.SKIP to improve CPAN testing

using C<is_deeply> for tests of C<transpose>, which may or may not work with CPAN testers (experimental)

Added function name to warnings, so I actually know which function is producing the error

C<write_table> can also take C<file> and C<data> as args, in addition to positions

fixed C<write_table> as it could hang if given empty C<col.names> or C<row.names>

Added C<__EXTENSIONS__> to source XS file for better CPAN testing

=head2 0.11

better POD formatting for tables

addition of MANIFEST.skip to get better testing results on CPAN

C<glm>: bugfix for when there is no intercept in the formula, new test cases in t/glm.t

C<write_table> now accepts simple hashes as input, in addition to hash of arrays, hash of hashes, and arrays of hashes

Better documentation for t-test

=head2 0.10

changes to compilation for CPAN, trying to get this work on Windows

Addition of C<prcomp> and C<value_counts>

C<matrix> will work without key names, just like in R.  Testing for C<matrix> has improved.

=head2 0.09

context changes in XS C<dTHX>, C<pTHX_>, and C<aTHX_> to get better CPAN testing results

C<restrict> keywords added to C<lm> to increase speed

=head2 0.08

Speed improvement in C<summary> of hashes.

Addition of C<add_data>, C<dnorm>, C<group_by>, C<ljoin>, and C<mode> functions

Chi-squared function no longer has Perl wrapper, and all code is in XS, which should result in a minor speed increase with 1 less function call.

Compiler changes for GNU source and inclusion of C<strings.h>, to ensure more CPAN testing works better.

C<read_table> now returns hash-of-hash in {row}{column}

=head2 0.07

Addition of C<summary> function.

Formulas can now be omitted from C<aov>, resulting in a stacked calculation as R would think.

Addition of C<oneway_test> for multi-group comparisons that does not assume normality like C<aov> does.

C<read_table> and C<write_table> now automatically set separators for C<.csv> files as C<,> and C<.tsv> files as C<"\t">, respectively, so these values no longer need to be specified separately from the file name.

=head2 0.06

Changed compiler options so that Solaris will work

signed integers changed to unsigned in C<glm>

Added restrict keywords to C<power_t_test>, and made C<int> to C<unsigned int>

=head2 0.05

Leak testing for C<sample>

removal of Data::Printer dependency for easier CPAN testing

switched several C<unsigned int> variable to C<I32> so that clang doesn't complain

added restrict keyword for C<sample>

=head2 0.04

addition of C<sample> function

GNU source, to maximize compatibility and ease installation

removal of JSON dependency to ease installation

=head2 0.03

Compatibility back to Perl 5.10

=head2 0.02

back-compatible to Perl 5.10, instead of original 5.40, ensuring more people can use it

added var_test

mean, min, sum, median, var, and max die with undefined values, and print the offending indices

"group_stats" added to aov, for TukeyHSD in the future

"cor" dies when given data with standard deviation of 0

C<write_table> now has C<undef.val> option, which shows how undefined values are printed to tables, which is C<NA> by default.
