h1. Test::Against - Test Data Against Formal Schemas

Version: 0.100

h2. WHAT IS IT

This is a testing framework for comparing text or other data to formal schemas
such as XML Schema or Document Type Declarations. It functions in a way
similar to Test::More, exporting all the same functions that Test::More
exports. It can be used by itself, or in conjuntion with other Test::More-
compatible modules.

h2. USING Test::AgainstSchema

You use Test::AgainstSchema itself as an umbrella class for the specific kind
of schemas you plan to test against, or you can use the specific classes
themselves:

<pre>
<code>
        use Test::AgainstSchema::XML;

        plan tests => $NUMBER_OF_TESTS;

        is_well_formed_xml($xml_file);
        is_valid_against_dtd($dtd_file, $xml_file,
                             "$xml_file validates against $dtd_file");

        ...
</code>
</pre>

or

<pre>
<code>
        use Test::AgainstSchema 'XML', tests => $NUMBER;

        is_well_formed_xml($xml_file);
        is_valid_against_dtd($dtd_file, $xml_file,
                             "$xml_file validates against $dtd_file");

        ...
</code>
</pre>

h2. BUILDING/INSTALLING

This package provides a Makefile.PL file as is typical of CPAN modules.
Building and installing is as easy as:

<pre>
<code>
        perl Makefile.PL
        make
        make test
        # If tests pass
        make install
</code>
</pre>

(The "make install" step may require super-user privileges.)

h2. PROBLEMS/BUG REPORTS

Problems, bug reports, or suggestions for enhancements can be sent to the RT
instance set up for all CPAN-based distributions:

bq. http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Test-AgainstSchema

h2. CHANGES

This is the initial release.

* lib/Test/AgainstSchema.pm (added)
* lib/Test/AgainstSchema/XML.pm (added)
* t/10_xml/05_xml_parsing.t (added)
* t/10_xml/10_sgmldtd.t (added)
* t/10_xml/20_xmlschema.t (added)
* t/10_xml/30_relaxng.t (added)
* t/10_xml/basic_tests.pl (added)
* t/10_xml/simple-bad.dtd (added)
* t/10_xml/simple-bad.rng (added)
* t/10_xml/simple-bad.xsd (added)
* t/10_xml/simple.dtd (added)
* t/10_xml/simple.rng (added)
* t/10_xml/simple.xsd (added)
* t/10_xml/xml-simple-bad.xml (added)
* t/10_xml/xml-simple.xml (added)
* t/90_integration/10_with_xml.t (added)
* t/90_integration/90_empty_subclass.t (added)
* t/90_integration/MyTestAgainstSchema.pm (added)
* t/util.pl (added)
* xt/00_load.t (added)
* xt/01_pod.t (added)
* xt/02_pod_coverage.t (added)
* xt/03_meta.t (added)
* xt/04_minimumversion.t (added)
* xt/05_critic.t (added)

p{margin-bottom:2em}. Initial commit of code, tests and test files.
