=head1 NAME

Business::BancaSella::Encode::Gateway - Uri creator for Gateway compatibility online system payment.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use CGI;
  use Business::BancaSella::Encode;
  
  my $cgi 	= new CGI();

  my $bs	= new Business::BancaSella::Encode::GestPay( 
                    shopping	=> $cgi->param('shopping'),
                    tid		=> $tid_number,
                    amount	=> $cgi->param('amount'),
                    otp		=> 'another_otp',
                    id		=> 'internal_id'
                    );
  
  my $bsUrl	= $bs->uri;
  print $cgi->redirect($bsUrl);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Extending Business::BancaSella::Gateway abstract class it creates uri that passed to Banca Sella online payment site
permit to open credit cards checker page with correct language, currency and amount.
It can manage also locally the request of credit card information using Banca Sella only for check if
the credit card infos are valid and the transaction can be committed.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new()

Create a new istance of Business::BancaSella::Encode::Gateway object. 

The required parameter needed to initialized the object are: 
amount,shopping,otp,id,tid.

See Business::BancaSella::Gateway for more information about this properties.

=head2 uri()

Return the formatted uri to call the Banca Sella's page passing it all value needed
to complete the payment process.

=head2 form(frmName)

Return a form html code named "frmName" ready, with a submitted button, to call
a Banca Sella's page for completing the payment process.

=head1 AUTHOR

Bruni Emiliano, info@ebruni.it

=head1 SEE ALSO

  Business::BancaSella::Gateway

=cut
