=head1 NAME

Business::BancaSella::Encode::Gestpay - Uri creator for GestPay online system payment.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use CGI;
  use Business::BancaSella::Encode;
  
  my $cgi 	= new CGI();	 
  my $bs	= new Business::BancaSella::Encode::Gestpay( 
                    shopping	    => $your_shopping_id,
                    amount	      => $the_amount,
                    language	    => 'italian',
                    currency	    => 'itl',
                    otp		        => 'another_otp',
                    id		        => 'internal_id',
                    user_params   => {
                                       USER_PARAM1  => 'value1',
                                       USER_PARAM2  => 'value2'
                                     }
                    );
  
  my $bsUrl	= $bs->uri;
  print $cgi->redirect($bsUrl);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Extending Business::BancaSella::GestPay abstract class it creates uri that passed to 
Banca Sella online payment site permit to open credit cards checker page with 
correct language, currency and amount.
It can manage also locally the request of credit card information using 
Banca Sella only for check if the credit card infos are valid and the 
transaction can be committed.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new()

Create a new istance of Business::BancaSella::Encode::Gestpay object. 

If you wish to use Banca Sella system for getting credit cards informations, the
required parameter needed to initialized the object are: amount,shopping,otp,id (with
default language in english and amount expressed in EURO currency.).

If you wish to use BancaSella system only for check the credit cards information
saved in your local pages, you must initialize also: cardnumber,expmonth,expyear.

See Business::BancaSella::Gestpay for more information about this properties.

=head2 uri()

Return the formatted uri to call the Banca Sella's page passing it all value needed
to complete the payment process.

=head2 form(frmName)

Return a form html code named "frmName" ready, with a submitted button, to call
a Banca Sella's page for completing the payment process.

=head1 AUTHOR

Bruni Emiliano, info@ebruni.it

=head1 SEE ALSO

  Business::BancaSella::Gestpay

=cut
