=encoding utf-8

=for stopwords
	MultiLang-pod
	addindex
	buildhtml
	buildtitle
	escapeHtml
	escapeUrl
	html
	langs
	makelink
	makelinkanchor
	mlpod
	plainize
	poddir
	resolveLink
	resolvePodEscape
	unescapeHtml
	utf-8
	verbmsg
	xhtml

=head1 NAME

Pod::MultiLang::Html - turn MultiLang-pod into html


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 $parser = Pod::MultiLang::Html->new(%opts);
 $parser->parse_from_file($infile,$outfile);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Pod::MultiLang::Html translates pod into html.
This inherits L<Pod::MultiLang> and it inherits L<Pod::Parser>, 
usage is same as Pod::Parser.


command/verbatim/textblock methods only do push paragraphs 
into an array, and end_pod method do conversion.
(these process is in Pod::MultiLang.)


prepare (listing up headings, setup index words, etc.) at 
$parser->rebuild(), and generate at $parser->output_html();


generate html is xhtml 1.1 ^^;


=head1 OPTIONS

method new takes follow arguments:


=over

=item langs

 langs => [qw(ja en)]

inherited from Pod::MultiLang.
pass to Pod::MultiLang->new(). 
see L<Pod::MultiLang/new>.


specify languages. 
paragraphs which exist in mlpod document but not selected with
C<langs> are ignored in result.


=item made

  made => 'mailto:example@example.com'

embed into Z<><link rev="made" href="" />. 


=item css

  css => 'style/podstyle.css'

  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style/podstyle.css" />

relative path between specified location and location that 
output file is generated.


=item poddir

  poddir => [qw(html/pod html/pragma html/lib)]

directories for existence check of file linked from pod.
by array reference.


=item missing_poddir

used when no link target found in poddir and link target seems 
perl core documents.


if omitted then missing_dir is used.


=item missing_pragmadir

used when no link target found in poddir and link target seems 
pragma documents.


省略時には missing_dir が使われます.


=item missing_dir

used when no link target found in poddir.


=item in_charset

encoding for input document.
default is utf-8. 


=item out_charset

encoding for output document.
default is utf-8.


and embed as 
Z<><meta content="Content-Type" value="text/html; charset=" /> .


=item default_lang

language for outsize of JZ<><> interior sequence.


=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

create new instance.


=head1 OVERRIDES

This module implements L<Pod::Parser>.


=over 4

=item begin_pod

=item end_pod

=item interior_sequence

=back

=head1 PRIVATE FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item rebuild

=item buildtitle

=item buildhtml

=item addindex

=item output_html

=item escapeHtml

=item escapeUrl

=item makelink

=item makelinkanchor

=item plainize

=item resolveLink

=item resolvePodEscape

=item unescapeHtml

=item verbmsg

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Pod::MultiLang>


