=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

CLDR::Number::FAQ - FAQ for CLDR::Number

=head1 VERSION

This document describes CLDR::Number v0.19, built with Unicode CLDR v29.

=head1 FAQ

=over

=item What’s the status of this project?

L<CLDR::Number> is a stable project used for over a year in production by
Shutterstock on L<www.shutterstock.com> for formatting numbers, percents, and
prices in twenty languages, ten currencies, and myriad countries. It is also
used by L<other projects on the
CPAN|https://metacpan.org/requires/distribution/CLDR-Number?sort=[[2,1]]>.

=item How do I set precision?

The attributes C<minimum_fraction_digits> and C<maximum_fraction_digits> can be
used. If you always want a specific number of fraction digits, also known as
I<precision>, set both of these attributes to the same number.

=item How do I remove cents?

When displaying whole monetary numbers, it is sometimes desired to leave off the
fraction digits (e.g. cents) for marketing purposes. To do this, set the
C<maximum_fraction_digits> attribute to C<0>. Beware though that some currencies
have a number of fraction digits other than two, so it is not safe to set
C<minimum_fraction_digits> and C<maximum_fraction_digits> to C<2> for arbitrary
currencies.

=item How do I set a default currency?

L<CLDR::Number::Format::Currency> does not provide a default currency for the
C<currency_code> attribute like we have for the C<locale> attribute nor does it
provide a I<default_currency_code> attribute like the C<default_locale>
attribute. This is because a price without a known currency has no known value.
Setting a default currency is just as inaccurate as setting a default number. If
your application depends on a default currency, the C<currency_code> attribute
can be explicitly set.

“B<Note:> I<Currency values should B<never> be interchanged without a known
currency code. You never want the number 3.5 interpreted as $3.50 by one user
and €3.50 by another.> Locale data contains localization information for
currencies, not a currency value for a country. A currency amount logically
consists of a numeric value, plus an accompanying currency code (or
equivalent).” —L<Unicode Technical Standard
#35|http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr35/tr35-numbers.html#Currencies>

=item How do I format years?

Years are a type of date, and dates have very different formatting rules than
regular numbers. Resources for localized date/time formatting include
L<DateTime>, L<DateTime::Locale>, and L<UTS #35: Unicode LDML, Part 4:
Dates|http://unicode.org/reports/tr35/tr35-dates.html>.

=item Why is the format different than expected?

Users occasionally report incorrect formatting for several non-existent locales.
This is most often the result of specifying a locale composed of an unrecognized
combination of language and country, which will cause the formatting to default
to the base language. Two common examples of this are C<en-MX> (Mexican English)
and C<es-BR> (Brazilian Spanish), which would default to C<en> (English) and
C<es> (Spanish), respectively. However, if demand is shown for them, they may be
added to the CLDR, such as C<es-BR>, which was added to CLDR v29.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item * L<CLDR::Number::TODO>

=back
