
=head1 NAME

Net::SMS::MessageNet - Send SMS messages via the messagenet.com.au service

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  perl -MNet::SMS::MessageNet -e 'send_sms($user_name, $password, $phone_number, $message);'
  perl -MNet::SMS::MessageNet -e 'Net::SMS::MessageNet->new($user_name, $password)->send($phone_number, $message);'

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module allows sending sms messages via https to the messagenet.com.au service

=head1 Functions

=item new ( $username, $password )

returns a new object for sending sms messages.  The username and password
parameters are from your messagenet.com.au account.  A test account can be obtained
from messagenet.com.au

=item send ( $phone_number, $message )

sends the contents of $message to the telephone number $phone_number.  $phone_number
should to a fully qualified phone number including country code.  For example, an
australian phone number may be '61412345678'.  A complete list of available services
may be found at http://www.messagenet.com.au/dotnet/Lodge.asmx.  This module is only 
currently implementing the LodgeSMSMessage interface.

=item send_sms ( $username, $password, $phone_number, $message )

a shortcut to calling new and send.  provided to allow greater ease of use for one liners. :)

=head1 AUTHOR

David Dick <ddick@cpan.org>

=head1 PREREQUISITES

Uses B<LWP>, B<HTTP::Cookies>, B<Net::HTTPS> and B<URI::Escape> modules.

=head1 BUGS

None known at this point
 
=head1 COPYRIGHT

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

