=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Any::Daemon::HTTP - preforking Apache/Plack-like webserver

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Any::Daemon::HTTP
   is an Any::Daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #
  # Simpelest
  #

  use Log::Report;
  use Any::Daemon::HTTP;
  my $http = Any::Daemon::HTTP->new
    ( handler   => \&handler
    , listen    => 'server.example.com:80'
    , %daemon_opts
    );

  sub handler($$$$$)
  {   my ($server, $client, $request, $vhost, $dir) = @_;
      return HTTP::Response->new(500);
  }

  #
  # Clean style
  #

  use Log::Report;
  use Any::Daemon::HTTP;
  my $http = Any::Daemon::HTTP->new
    ( listen    => 'server.example.com:80'
    );

  $http->addVirtualHost
    ( name      => 'www.example.com'
    , aliases   => 'example.com'
    , documents => '/www/srv/example.com/http'
    , handler   => \&handler
    );

  $http->run;

  #
  # Limited server
  #

  my $http = Any::Daemon::HTTP->new
    ( listen    => 'www.example.com'
    , documents => '/www/srv/example.com/http'
    , handler   => \&handler
    , %daemon_opts
    );
  $http->run;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module extends the basic L<Any::Daemon|Any::Daemon> with childs which handle http
connections.  This daemon does understand virtual hosts, per directory
configuration, access rules, uri rewrites, proxies, and other features of
Apache and Plack.  But you can also use it for a very simple HTTP server.

The HTTP/1.1 protocol implementation of HTTP::Daemon is (ab)used.
See L</DETAILS> for a list of features and limitations.

Please support my development work by submitting bug-reports, patches
and (if available) a donation.

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in Any::Daemon|Any::Daemon/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in Any::Daemon|Any::Daemon/"METHODS">.
 
=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in Any::Daemon|Any::Daemon/"Constructors">.
 
=over 4

=item Any::Daemon::HTTP-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

Also see the option descriptions of L<Any::Daemon::new()|Any::Daemon/"Constructors">.

When C<documents> or C<handler> is passed, then a virtual host will
be created from that.  It is nicer to create the vhost explicitly.
If you L<run()|Any::Daemon::HTTP/"Action"> without host or documents or any vhost definition,
then the defaults are used to create a default vhost.

 -Option          --Defined in     --Default
  documents                          undef
  group             Any::Daemon      undef
  handlers                           undef
  listen                             <required>
  on_error                           undef
  pid_file          Any::Daemon      undef
  proxies                            <default>
  proxy_class                        Any::Daemon::HTTP::Proxy
  server_id                          <program name>
  session_class                      Any::Daemon::HTTP::Session
  standard_headers                   [ ]
  user              Any::Daemon      undef
  vhost_class                        Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost
  vhosts                             <default>
  workdir           Any::Daemon      current working directory

=over 2

=item documents => DIRECTORY

See L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost::new(documents)|Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost/"Constructors">.

=item group => GID|GROUPNAME

=item handlers => CODE|HASH

See  L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost::new(handlers)|Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost/"Constructors">. You can also use
the option name C<handler>.

=item listen => SOCKET|HOSTNAME[:PORT]|IPADDR[:PORT]|ARRAY

Specifies one or more SOCKETs, HOSTNAMEs, or IP-ADDResses where connections
can come in.  Old option names C<host> and C<socket> are also still
available.

=item on_error => CODE

[0.21] This handler is called when an 4xx or 5xx error response has
been produced.  The result of this function should be the new response
(may be the same as the incoming)

=item pid_file => FILENAME

=item proxies => PROXY|PACKAGE|\%options|ARRAY

[0.24] For %options, see L<addProxy()|Any::Daemon::HTTP/"Host administration">.
The %options are passed to L<addProxy()|Any::Daemon::HTTP/"Host administration">, to create a proxy
object under fly.  You may also pass an L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::Proxy|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Proxy>
objects or by the %options to create such objects.  An ARRAY contains a
mixture of proxy definitions.  Same as option C<proxy>.

=item proxy_class => PACKAGE

[0.24] The PACKAGE must extend the default class.

=item server_id => STRING

=item session_class => PACKAGE

[0.21] The PACKAGE must extend the default class.  The extended class may
be used to implement loading and saving session information, or adding
abstraction.

=item standard_headers => ARRAY

Pass a list of key-value pairs which will be added to each produced
response.  They are fed into HTTP::Headers subroutine push_header.

=item user => UID|USERNAME

=item vhost_class => PACKAGE

[0.22] The PACKAGE must extend the default class.  See the
L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost/DETAILS> about creating your own virtual
hosts.

=item vhosts => VHOST|PACKAGE|\%options|ARRAY

The %options are passed to L<addVirtualHost()|Any::Daemon::HTTP/"Host administration">, to create a virtual host
object under fly.  You may also pass an initialized
L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost|Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost> object, or a PACKAGE name to be used
for the default vhost.  An ARRAY contains a mixture of vhost definitions.
[0.24] Same as option C<vhost>.

=item workdir => DIRECTORY

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

Extends L<"Accessors" in Any::Daemon|Any::Daemon/"Accessors">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<sockets>()

Returns all the sockets we listen on.  This list is the result of
L<new(listen)|Any::Daemon::HTTP/"METHODS">.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<workdir>()

Inherited, see L<Any::Daemon/"Accessors">

=back

=head2 Host administration

VirtualHosts and a global proxy can be added in a any order.  They
can also be added at run-time!

When a request arrives, it contains a C<Host> header which is used to
select the right object.  When a VirtualHost has this name or alias,
that will be address.  Otherwise, if there are global proxy objects,
they are tried one after the other to see whether the forwardRewrite()
reports that it accepts the request.  If this all fails, then the request
is redirected to the host named (or aliased) 'default'.  As last resort,
you get an error.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addProxy>($object|\%options|%options)

Add a L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::Proxy|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Proxy> object which has a C<proxy_map>,
about how to handle requests for incoming hosts.  The proxy settings
will be tried in order of addition, only when there are no virtual
hosts addressed.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addVirtualHost>($vhost|\%options|%options)

Adds a new virtual host to the knowledge of the daemon.  Can be used
at run-time, until the daemon goes into 'run' mode (starts forking
childs)  The added virtual host object is returned.

The $vhost is an already prepared VirtualHost object.  With %options,
the VirtualHost object gets created for you with those %options.
See L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost::new()|Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost/"Constructors"> for %options.

See the manual page for L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost|Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost> on how you
can cleanly extend the class for your own purpose.

example: 

  # Simple version
  $http->addVirtualHost
    ( name      => 'images'
    , aliases   => 'images.example.com'
    , documents => '/home/www/images
    );

  # Own virtual host, usually in separate pm-file
  { package My::VHost;
    use parent 'Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost';
    ...
  }
  my $vhost = My::VHost->new(...);
  $http->addVirtualHost($vhost);

  # Implicitly add virtual hosts
  push @vhosts, $vhost;
  my $http = Any::Daemon::HTTP->new
    ( ...
    , vhosts    => \@vhosts
    );

=item $obj-E<gt>B<findProxy>($session, $request, $host)

[0.24] Find the first proxy which is mapping the URI of the $request.  Returns a
pair, containing the proxy and the location where it points to.

Usually, in a proxy, the request needs to be in absolute form in the
request header.  However, we can be more 

=item $obj-E<gt>B<proxies>()

[0.24] Returns a list with all added proxy objects.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<removeVirtualHost>($vhost|$name|$alias)

Remove all name and alias registrations for the indicated virtual host.
Silently ignores non-existing vhosts.  The removed virtual host object
is returned.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<virtualHost>($name)

Find the virtual host with the $name or alias.  Returns the
L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost|Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost> or C<undef>.

=back

=head2 Action

Extends L<"Action" in Any::Daemon|Any::Daemon/"Action">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<run>(%options)

When there is no vhost yet, one will be created.  When only one vhost
is active, you may pass C<handle_request> (see the vhost docs).

 -Option            --Defined in     --Default
  background          Any::Daemon      <true>
  child_died          Any::Daemon      spawn new childs
  child_task          Any::Daemon      <accept http connections>
  kill_childs         Any::Daemon      send sigterm
  linger                               undef
  max_childs          Any::Daemon      10
  max_conn_per_child                   10_000
  max_req_per_child                    100_000
  max_req_per_conn                     100
  max_time_per_conn                    120
  new_connection                       <undef>
  reconfigure         Any::Daemon      ignore
  req_time_bonus                       5

=over 2

=item background => BOOLEAN

=item child_died => CODE

=item child_task => CODE

=item kill_childs => CODE

=item linger => SECONDS

When defined, it sets the maximim time a client may stay connected
to collect the data after the connection is closed by the server.
When zero, the last response may get lost, because the connection gets
reset immediately.  Without linger, browsers may block the server
resource for a long time.  So, a linger of a few seconds (when you only
have small files) will help protecting your server.

This setting determines the minimum time for a save server reboot.  When
the daemon is stopped, the client may still keeps its socket.  The restart
of the server may fail with "socket already in use".

=item max_childs => INTEGER

=item max_conn_per_child => INTEGER

[0.24] Average maximum number of connections which are handled
per process, before it commits suicide to cleanup garbaged memory.
The parent will start a new process.

This value gets a random value in 10% range added to subtracted to avoid
that all childs reset at the same time.  So, for the default value, 9_000
upto 11_000 connections will be served before a reset.

=item max_req_per_child => INTEGER

[0.24] maximum number of HTTP requests accepted by all connections for
one process.

=item max_req_per_conn => INTEGER

[0.24] maximum number of HTTP requests handled in one connection.

=item max_time_per_conn => SECONDS

Maximum time a connection will stay alive.  When the time expires, the
process will forcefully killed.  For each request, C<req_time_bonus>
seconds are added.  This may be a bit short when your files are large.

=item new_connection => CODE

The CODE is called on each new connection made.  It gets as parameters
the server (this object) and the connection (an
L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::Session|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Session> extension)

=item reconfigure => CODE

=item req_time_bonus => SECONDS

=back

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head2 Server supported features

Many often used features are supported

=over 4

=item * HTTP/1.1 protocol

Supported by via the HTTP::Daemon connection implementation, which
is gracefully hijacked.  Messages are HTTP::Request and HTTP::Response
objects, borrowed from LWP.

=item * virtual hosts

Multiple "hosts" listening on the same port, abstracted in
L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost|Any::Daemon::HTTP::VirtualHost> objects.  The vhosts have a
name and may have a number of aliases.

=item * directories per VirtualHost 

One or more "directory" configurations may be added, which may be
nested.  They are represened by a L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::Directory|Any::Daemon::HTTP::Directory> objects.
Each "directory" maps a "path" in the request to a directory on disk.  

=item * allow/deny per Directory

Supports CIDR and hostname based access restrictions.

=item * directory lists per Directory

When permitted and no C<index.html> file is found, a listing is generated.

=item * user directories per VirtualHost 

One directory object can be a L<Any::Daemon::HTTP::UserDirs|Any::Daemon::HTTP::UserDirs>, managing
user directories (request paths which start with C</~$username>)

=item * proxies

=item * static content caching

Reduce retransmitting files, supporting C<ETag> and C<Last-Modified>.

=item * rewrite rules per VirtualHost

Translate incoming request paths into new paths in the same vhost.

=item * redirection rules per VirtualHost

Translate incoming request paths into browser redirects.

=item * dynamic content handlers per VirtualHost

When there is no matching file, a handler will be called to produce the
required information.  The default handler will produce 404 errors.

=item * dynamic content caching

Reduce transmitting dynamic content using C<ETag> and C<MD5>'s

=back

=head2 Server limitations

Ehhh...

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Any-Daemon-HTTP distribution version 0.27,
built on March 04, 2018. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/any-daemon/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2013-2018 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

