=head1	NAME

DBIx::YAWM - (Yet Annother Wrapper Module) Provides a simplified interface to DBI

This module provides annother layer of abstraction for talking to databases via DBI.
YAWM.pm can theoretically talk to any database which has a DBD:: driver, however it's
only been tested against MySQL, Sybase and Oracle. This module provides support for querying and
inserting records (but not updating yet). 
	
I guess the value of this module is that it provides a central place where all the SELECT's and
INSERT's in your code occur, leaving only the SQL to keep track of in your main program. This handier
than you would think.

=head1	To Do:

write test scripts

=head1	New (constructor)

=head2	Notes

This is the object contructor. Upon object creation, this will connect to the specified database.
So if you want to connect to more than one database, you would use more than one object. Be sure to use
Destroy on the object to disconnect from the datbaase. In all other methods, if the method failes, an
error is written to $Object->{errstr}, but becuase we don't have an object if this method fails, we write
the error to $DBIx::YAWM:errstr. 

=head2	Synopsis

 $Object = DBIx::YAWM::new([options]) || die $DBIx::YAWM::errstr, "\n";

=head2	Required Options

=over

=item DBType

This is the type of database you are connecting to. Specifically, this is the name of the DBD driver
for that database. For example "Oracle" for DBD::Oracle, and "Sybase" for DBD::Sybase.

=item Server

This is the name of the database you are trying to connect to. What this is exactly is slightly dependant
on the DBType. For instance, Oracle expects the hostname of the server containing the database. However,
Sybase uses an interfaces file which handles hostname resolution, so Sybase expects the alias from the 
interfaces file here.

=item User

This is the username to connect to the target database

=item Pass

This is the password associated with User

=item SID

This is only required when connecting to DBType=>"Oracle". This is the oracle SID, or the name of the
database.

=back


=head2	Additional Options

=over

=item Debug

Setting this option to a nonzero value causes debug messages to be printed

=back


=head1	Query

=head2 Notes

This method handles querying the database. Data is returned as a reference to an array of anonymous hashes. 
Each nested hash represents a record returned from the query, and contains field value pairs
for each selected field. So it looks like this:

 \@data = (
	{ 'field' => $value, 'field2' => $value2, etc ... },
	{ 'field' => $value, 'field2' => $value2, etc ... }
);

Upon failure, the undef value is returned, and an error is written to $Object->{errstr}

=head2 Synopsis

 $data = $Object->Query([options]) || die $Object->{errstr}, "\n";


=head2 Required Options

=over

=item Select

This is an array refrence to a list of field names to select. You may find it convinient to buid the
array reference inline with the function call like this:
 Select	=> ["field1", "field2", "field3"]

=item From

The name of the table, view or object to select from.

=back

=head2 Additional Options

=over

=item Where

The 'where clause' of your SQL query.

=back




=head1	Insert

=head2 Notes

Insert a record into the given table of the database

=head2 Synopsis

 $Object->Insert([options]) || die $Object->{errstr}, "\n";

=head2 Required Options

=over

=item Into

The name of the table or view to insert data into

=item Insert

The data you wish to insert. This should be a hash reference containing field/value pairs. 
You may find that it is helpfull to build the hash reference inline with the function call like so:

 Insert => { 'field1' => $value1, 'field2' => $value2 }

=item NoQuote

This is an ugly hack. Some databases have funny rules about quoting certain values (such as integers).
By default, YAWM quotes all values with the quote charachter defined by the DBD driver for the 
database. You can specify a hash reference here, each key in the hash is a field name, the value for
the key is ignored. If a field is defined in the hash reference, it's value won't be quoted in the
SQL, here's an example:

$obj->Insert(
	Into	=> "Stuff",
	Insert	=> { 'integer'	=> 23, 'string' => "the integer won't be quoted" },
	NoQuote => { 'integer'	=> 1 }
);

like I said it's an ugly hack. What would be better of course, would be to pull a table description
first, and then to match the datatype, and quoting rules. I'd bet that the DBD drivers may do
something like this already ... but this a "Yet Annother *" module and in keeping in with that spirit
... ;-)

=back


=head1	Login

This logs into the database. This method is called internally by the DBTools::New method. 
This is not intended for public use.



=head1	Do

=head2	Synopsis

Prepare and execute an arbitrary SQL statement. Return undef if error, else return whatever
comes back from dbi->execute.

=head2	Options

=over

=item	SQL

the SQL statement to be prepared and executed

=back


=head1	Update

head2	Synopsis

changes data in a preexisting record
 
$Object->Update([options]) || die $Object->{errstr}, "\n";

=head2	Options

=over

=item	Table

name of table which contains record(s) matching 'Where' to update with 'Fields'

=item	Where

where clause that identifies which record(s) to update in 'Table'

=item	Fields

a hash reference containing data to be changed in the matching record(s). Each key is a field name
each value is the data for the corresponding key.

=back

=head1	Author: 

    Andrew N. Hicox	<ahicox@hicox.com>
    http://www.hicox.com
