
=head1 NAME

Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods - Common Methods

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Win32::GUI package defines a set of methods that apply to most windows and
controls. Some of the methods are applicable to resources. See the individual
method documentation for more details.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 METHODS

L<Common methods|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods> apply to most windows, controls and resources.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 AbsLeft

B<AbsLeft([LEFT])>

Gets or sets the absolute left (screen) co-ordinate of a window.

See also L<Left()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Left>
See also L<Move()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Move>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 AbsTop

B<AbsTop([TOP])>

Gets or sets the absolute top (screen) co-ordinate of a window.

See also L<Top()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Top>
See also L<Move()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Move>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 AcceptFiles

B<AcceptFiles([FLAG])>

Gets/sets the L<-acceptfiles|Win32::GUI::Reference::Options/acceptfiles>
options on a window.  If C<FLAG> is not provided, returns the current
state.  If FLAG is provided it sets or unsets the state, returning the
previous state.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Animate

B<Animate(%OPTIONS)>

Apply special effects when showing or hiding a window.  Used instead of
L<Show()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Show> or
L<Hide()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Hide>.

OPTIONS can take the following values:

  -show      => (0|1)                             default: 1
    Hide(0) or Show(1) the window

  -activate  => (0|1)                             default: 0
    Activate the window.  Ignored if hiding the
    window

  -animation => (roll|slide|blend|center)         default: 'roll'
    Animation type:
        roll:   use roll animation
        slide:  use slide animation
        blend:  use a fade effect.  Top-level
                windows only
        center: expand out if showing, collapse
                in when hiding

  -time      => time                              default: 200
    Animation time in milli-seconds

  -direction => (lr|tlbr|tb|trbl|rl|brtl|bt|bltr) default: 'lr'
    Animation direction (l=left, r=right, t=top, b=bottom).
    Ignored for animation types blend and center

Returns a true value on success or a false value on failure

NOTE: blend animation does not work on Win98.  It is recomended
that you always check the return value from this function and
issue a suitable Show() or Hide() on failure.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ArrangeIconicWindows

B<ArrangeIconicWindows()>

Arranges all the minimized child windows of the specified parent window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 AttachThreadInput

B<AttachThreadInput(FROM, TO, [FLAG])>

If you have multiple windows running in different threads, this function
allows you to attach one thread's input processor to a different thread.

For example, you can redirect thread A's input to thread B, and then
call SetFocus on an object running in thread B to set the keyboard focus
to that object. You would not normally be able to do this.

B<FROM> and B<TO> should be thread IDs. B<FLAG> should be non-zero to attach the
threads (the default operation if B<FLAG> is not specified), or zero to
detach the threads.

see also L<GetWindowThreadProcessId()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/GetWindowThreadProcessId>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 BringWindowToTop

B<BringWindowToTop()>

Brings a window to the foreground (on top of other windows). This does
not make the window "always on top". If the window is already on top,
it is activated. If the window is a child window, the top-level
parent window associated with the child window is activated.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 BrowseForFolder

B<BrowseForFolder(%OPTIONS)>

Displays the standard "Browse For Folder" dialog box. Returns the
selected item's name, or undef if no item was selected or an error
occurred.

Allowed B<%OPTIONS> are:

 -title => STRING
     the title for the dialog
 -computeronly => 0/1 (default 0)
     only enable computers to be selected
 -domainonly => 0/1 (default 0)
     only enable computers in the current domain or workgroup
 -driveonly => 0/1 (default 0)
     only enable drives to be selected
 -editbox => 0/1 (default 0)
     if 1, the dialog will include an edit field in which
     the user can type the name of an item
 -folderonly => 0/1 (default 0)
     only enable folders to be selected
 -includefiles => 0/1 (default 0)
     the list will include files as well folders
 -newui => 0/1 (default 0)
     use the "new" user interface (which has a "New folder" button)
 -nonewfolder => 0/1 (default 0)
     hides the "New folder" button (only meaningful with -newui => 1)
 -owner => WINDOW
     A Win32::GUI::Window or Win32::GUI::DialogBox object specifiying the
     owner window for the dialog box
 -printeronly => 0/1 (default 0)
     only enable printers to be selected
 -directory => PATH
     the default start directory for browsing
 -root => PATH or CONSTANT
     the root directory for browsing; this can be either a
     path or one of the following constants (minimum operating systems or
     Internet Explorer versions that support the constant are shown in
     square brackets. NT denotes Windows NT 4.0, Windows 2000, XP, etc.):

      CSIDL_FLAG_CREATE (0x8000)
          [2000/ME] Combining this with any of the constants below will create the folder if it does not already exist.
      CSIDL_ADMINTOOLS (0x0030)
          [2000/ME] Administrative Tools directory for current user
      CSIDL_ALTSTARTUP (0x001d)
          [All] Non-localized Startup directory in the Start menu for current user
      CSIDL_APPDATA (0x001a)
          [IE4] Application data directory for current user
      CSIDL_BITBUCKET (0x000a)
          [All] Recycle Bin
      CSIDL_CDBURN_AREA (0x003b)
          [XP] Windows XP directory for files that will be burned to CD
      CSIDL_COMMON_ADMINTOOLS (0x002f)
          [2000/ME] Administrative Tools directory for all users
      CSIDL_COMMON_ALTSTARTUP (0x001e)
          [All] Non-localized Startup directory in the Start menu for all users
      CSIDL_COMMON_APPDATA (0x0023)
          [2000/ME] Application data directory for all users
      CSIDL_COMMON_DESKTOPDIRECTORY (0x0019)
          [NT] Desktop directory for all users
      CSIDL_COMMON_DOCUMENTS (0x002e)
          [IE4] My Documents directory for all users
      CSIDL_COMMON_FAVORITES (0x001f)
          [NT] Favorites directory for all users
      CSIDL_COMMON_MUSIC (0x0035)
          [XP] Music directory for all users
      CSIDL_COMMON_PICTURES (0x0036)
          [XP] Image directory for all users
      CSIDL_COMMON_PROGRAMS (0x0017)
          [NT] Start menu "Programs" directory for all users
      CSIDL_COMMON_STARTMENU (0x0016)
          [NT] Start menu root directory for all users
      CSIDL_COMMON_STARTUP (0x0018)
          [NT] Start menu Startup directory for all users
      CSIDL_COMMON_TEMPLATES (0x002d)
          [NT] Document templates directory for all users
      CSIDL_COMMON_VIDEO (0x0037)
          [XP] Video directory for all users
      CSIDL_CONTROLS (0x0003)
          [All] Control Panel applets
      CSIDL_COOKIES (0x0021)
          [All] Cookies directory
      CSIDL_DESKTOP (0x0000)
          [All] Namespace root (shown as "Desktop", but is parent to my computer, control panel, my documents, etc.)
      CSIDL_DESKTOPDIRECTORY (0x0010)
          [All] Desktop directory (for desktop icons, folders, etc.) for the current user
      CSIDL_DRIVES (0x0011)
          [All] My Computer (drives and mapped network drives)
      CSIDL_FAVORITES (0x0006)
          [All] Favorites directory for the current user
      CSIDL_FONTS (0x0014)
          [All] Fonts directory
      CSIDL_HISTORY (0x0022)
          [All] Internet Explorer history items for the current user
      CSIDL_INTERNET (0x0001)
          [All] Internet root
      CSIDL_INTERNET_CACHE (0x0020)
          [IE4] Temporary Internet Files directory for the current user
      CSIDL_LOCAL_APPDATA (0x001c)
          [2000/ME] Local (non-roaming) application data directory for the current user
      CSIDL_MYMUSIC (0x000d)
          [All] My Music directory for the current user
      CSIDL_MYPICTURES (0x0027)
          [2000/ME] Image directory for the current user
      CSIDL_MYVIDEO (0x000e)
          [XP] Video directory for the current user
      CSIDL_NETHOOD (0x0013)
          [All] My Network Places directory for the current user
      CSIDL_NETWORK (0x0012)
          [All] Root of network namespace (Network Neighbourhood)
      CSIDL_PERSONAL (0x0005)
          [All] My Documents directory for the current user
      CSIDL_PRINTERS (0x0004)
          [All] List of installed printers
      CSIDL_PRINTHOOD (0x001b)
          [All] Network printers directory for the current user
      CSIDL_PROFILE (0x0028)
          [2000/ME] The current user's profile directory
      CSIDL_PROFILES (0x003e)
          [XP] The directory that holds user profiles (see CSDIL_PROFILE)
      CSIDL_PROGRAM_FILES (0x0026)
          [2000/ME] Program Files directory
      CSIDL_PROGRAM_FILES_COMMON (0x002b)
          [2000] Directory for files that are used by several applications. Usually Program Files\Common
      CSIDL_PROGRAMS (0x0002)
          [All] Start menu "Programs" directory for the current user
      CSIDL_RECENT (0x0008)
          [All] Recent Documents directory for the current user
      CSIDL_SENDTO (0x0009)
          [All] "Send To" directory for the current user
      CSIDL_STARTMENU (0x000b)
          [All] Start Menu root for the current user
      CSIDL_STARTUP (0x0007)
          [All] Start Menu "Startup" folder for the current user
      CSIDL_SYSTEM (0x0025)
          [2000/ME] System directory. Usually \Windows\System32
      CSIDL_TEMPLATES (0x0015)
          [All] Document templates directory for the current user
      CSIDL_WINDOWS (0x0024)
          [2000/ME] Windows root directory, can also be accessed via the environment variables %windir% or %SYSTEMROOT%.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Caption

B<Caption([TEXT])>

See L<Text()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Text>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Change

B<Change(HANDLE, %OPTIONS)>

Change most of the options used when the object was created.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ChangeCursor

B<ChangeCursor(CURSOR)>

Changes the default cursor for a window to B<CURSOR> (a Win32::GUI::Cursor
object). Returns the handle of the previous default cursor.

see also new Win32::GUI::Cursor

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ChangeIcon

B<ChangeIcon(ICON)>

Changes the default icon for a window to B<ICON> (a Win32::GUI::Icon
object). Returns the handle of the previous default icon.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ChangeSmallIcon

B<ChangeSmallIcon(ICON)>

Changes the default small icon for a window to B<ICON> (a Win32::GUI::Icon
object). Returns the handle of the previous default small icon.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ChooseColor

B<ChooseColor(%OPTIONS)>

Allowed B<%OPTIONS> are:

 -owner => WINDOW
     Identifies the window that owns the dialog box.
 -color => COLOR
     Initial color selected.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ChooseFont

B<ChooseFont(%OPTIONS)>

Allowed B<%OPTIONS> are:

 -owner => WINDOW
     Identifies the window that owns the dialog box.
 -pointsize
 -height
 -width
 -escapement
 -orientation
 -weight
 -bold
 -italic
 -underline
 -strikeout
 -charset
 -outputprecision
 -clipprecision
 -quality
 -family
 -name
 -face (== -name)
 -color
 -ttonly
 -fixedonly
 -effects
 -script
 -minsize
 -maxsize

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ClassData

B<ClassData([value])>

Sets or reads class instance data associated with the window or control.

 my $data=$win->ClassData();#retrieve any data associated with the window
 $win->ClassData('some string');#associate data to the window

Class instance data can be any perl scalar or reference.

When reading returns the stored instance data, or undef if nothing is
stored.
When setting returns a true value if the instance data is stored
correctly, or a false value on error

Class instance data is private to the package that sets the data.  I.e. it
is only accessable as a method call from within the package that sets the
data, not from a sub-class.  So, if you wish to make data stored this way
accessible to sub-classes you must proved assessor methods in your package.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ClientToScreen

B<ClientToScreen(X, Y)>

Converts client-area co-ordinates to screen co-ordinates.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ClipCursor

B<ClipCursor([LEFT, TOP, RIGHT, BOTTOM])>

Confines the cursor to the specified screen rectangle. Call it without
parameters to release the cursor. Returns nonzero on success

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 CloseEnhMetaFile

B<CloseEnhMetaFile(HANDLE)>

Closes an enhanced-metafile device context and returns a handle that identifies an enhanced-format metafile.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 CloseWindow

B<CloseWindow()>

Minimizes a window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 CommDlgExtendedError

B<CommDlgExtendedError()>

Returns the common dialog library error code.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 CreateEnhMetaFile

B<CreateEnhMetaFile(FILENAME, [DESCRIPTION])>

Creates a device context for an enhanced-format metafile.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 DeleteEnhMetaFile

B<DeleteEnhMetaFile(HANDLE)>

Deletes an enhanced-format metafile or an enhanced-format metafile handle.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Dialog

B<Dialog()>

Enter the GUI dialog phase: the script halts, the user can interact with
the created windows and events subroutines are triggered as necessary;
note that this function must be called without ANY parameter or
instantiation (eg. don't call it as method of a created object):

  Win32::GUI::Dialog(); # correct
  $Window->Dialog();    # !!!WRONG!!!

Win32::GUI::Dialog(); does a similar thing to

   while(Win32::GUI::DoEvents() != -1) {};

See also L<DoEvents()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/DoEvents>
See also L<DoModal()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/DoModal>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 DialogUI

B<DialogUI(HANDLE, [FLAG])>

Gets or sets whether a window accepts dialog-box style input (tab between
fields, accelerator keys etc). B<FLAG> should be 1 to enable this functionality,
or 0 to disable it.

See also L<new Win32::GUI::DialogBox()|Win32::GUI::DialogBox/new>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Disable

B<Disable()>

Disables a window or control. Disabled widgets cannot be interacted with,
and often change appearance to indicate that they are disabled. This is
the same as Enable(0).

See also L<Enable()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Enable>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 DoEvents

B<DoEvents(hwnd=NULL,wMsgFilterMin=0,wMsgFilterMax=0,wRemoveMsg=PM_REMOVE)>

Performs all pending GUI events and returns the status. If DoEvents()
returns -1, your GUI has normally terminated.

You can call $window->DoEvents() to process pending events relating to a
specific window, or Win32::GUI::DoEvents() to process pending events for all
windows.

see also L<Dialog()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Dialog>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 DoModal

B<DoModal([DISABLE_ALL=FALSE])>

Enter the GUI dialog phase for a specific window: the script halts, the
user can interact with the window, events subroutines are triggered as
necessary, but no other windows in the application will accept input.
DoModal() also brings the window on top of all other windows.

B<DISABLE_ALL> flag can set for deactivate all top window and not only parent/active window.

The correct usage is:

  $window->DoModal(1);

To exit from the GUI dialog phase of the modal window, return -1 from the event handler.

See also L<Dialog()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Dialog>
See also L<DoEvents()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/DoEvents>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 DrawMenuBar

B<DrawMenuBar()>

Forces redrawing of the menu bar.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Enable

B<Enable([FLAG])>

Enables (or disables) a window or control. Controls do not accept input
when they are disabled.

B<FLAG> should be 0 to disable the control (the same as calling Disable() on
a control), or 1 to enable it.

See also L<Disable()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Disable>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 EnumMyWindows

B<EnumMyWindows()>

Returns a list of top-level window handles created by your application.

Usage:

   @windows = Win32::GUI::EnumMyWindows();

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 FindWindow

B<FindWindow(CLASSNAME, WINDOWNAME)>

Returns the handle of the window whose class name and window name match
the specified strings; both strings can be empty. Note that the function
does not search child windows, only top level windows.

If no matching windows is found, the return value is zero.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 FreeLibrary

B<FreeLibrary(LIBRARY)>

The FreeLibrary function decrements the reference count of the loaded dynamic-link library (DLL) module.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetAbsClientRect

B<GetAbsClientRect()>

Gets the absolute screen co-ordinates of the client rectangle and returns
an array of left, top, right, and bottom co-ordinates.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetActiveWindow

B<GetActiveWindow()>

Returns the handle of the active window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetAsyncKeyState

B<GetAsyncKeyState(keyCode)>

Retrieve the status of the specified virtual key at the time the function
is called. The status specifies whether the key is up or down.

keyCode -- If A..Z0..9, use the ASCII code. Otherwise, use
a virtual key code. Example: VK_SHIFT

Return 1 if the key is depressed, 0 if it's not.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetCapture

B<GetCapture()>

Returns the handle of the window that has the captured the mouse.
If no window has captured the mouse zero is returned.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetClassName

B<GetClassName()>

Returns the class name for a window or control.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetClientRect

B<GetClientRect()>

Gets the client area rectangle and returns an array of left, top, right,
and bottom co-ordinates if successful. Left and top will always be 0,
right and bottom are equivalent to the width and height of the client
area.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetCursor

B<GetCursor()>

Returns the handle of the current cursor.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetCursorPos

B<GetCursorPos()>

Gets the absolute mouse cursor position. Returns an array containing
x and y co-ordinates.

Usage:

  ($x, $y) = Win32::GUI::GetCursorPos;

See also L<ScreenToClient()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/ScreenToClient>
See also L<SetCursorPos()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/SetCursorPos>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetDesktopWindow

B<GetDesktopWindow()>

Returns the handle of the desktop window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetDlgItem

B<GetDlgItem(ID)>

Returns the handle of a control in the dialog box given its B<ID>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetEffectiveClientRect

B<GetEffectiveClientRect(HANDLE, @CONTROLS)>

Returns the left, top, right and bottom co-ordinates of a rectangle that
can accommodate all the controls specified. The elements of B<@CONTROLS>
should be control identifiers.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetEvent

B<GetEvent(NAME)>

Retrieves an event. If the New Event Model is being used, this will
return the code-reference of the event you named, otherwise it will
return undef.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetFocus

B<GetFocus()>

Returns the handle of the window that has the keyboard focus.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetFont

B<GetFont(FONT)>

Gets the font of the window (returns an handle; use to get font details).

  $Font = $W->GetFont();
  %details = Win32::GUI::Font::Info( $Font );

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetFontName

B<GetFontName()>

Returns the name of the font that is currently assigned to a window or
control

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetForegroundWindow

B<GetForegroundWindow()>

Returns the handle of the foreground window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetKeyboardState

B<GetKeyboardState()>

Return array ref with the status of the 256 virtual keys.

The index in the array is the virtual key code. If the value
is true, that key is depressed.

Example:

  $key=Win32::GUI::GetKeyboardState;
  print 'CTRL is down' if $key->[0x11];

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetKeyState

B<GetKeyState(keyCode)>

Retrieve the status of the specified virtual key at the time the last
keyboard message was retrieved from the message queue.

In scalar context returns a value specifying whether the key is up(0)
or down(1). In list context, returns a 2 element list with the first
element as in scalar context and the second member specifying whether
the key is toggled(1) or not(0) - this is only meaningful for keys that
have a toggled state: Caps Lock, Num Lock etc.

keyCode -- If A..Z0..9, use the ASCII code. Otherwise, use
a virtual key code. Example: VK_SHIFT

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetMenu

B<GetMenu()>

Returns the handle of the menu associated with the window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetMessage

B<GetMessage([MIN=0, MAX=0])>

Retrieves a message sent to the window, optionally considering only
messages identifiers in the range B<MIN..MAX>.

If a message is found, the function returns a 7 elements array containing:

  - the result code of the message
  - the message identifier
  - the wParam argument
  - the lParam argument
  - the time when message occurred
  - the x coordinate at which message occurred
  - the y coordinate at which message occurred

If the result code of the message was -1 the function returns undef. Note
that this function should not be normally used unless you know very well
what you're doing.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetOpenFileName

B<GetOpenFileName(%OPTIONS)>

Allowed B<%OPTIONS> are:

 -owner => WINDOW
     Identifies the window that owns the dialog box.
 -title => STRING
     The title for the dialog
 -directory => STRING
     Specifies the initial directory
 -file => STRING
     Specifies a name that will appear on the dialog's edit field
 -filter => ARRAY REFERENCE
     Specifies an array containing pairs of filter strings.
     The first string in each pair is a display string that describes the filter
     (for example, "Text Files"), and the second string specifies the filter pattern
     (for example, "*.TXT"). To specify multiple filter patterns for a single display
     string, use a semicolon to separate the patterns (for example, "*.TXT;*.DOC;*.BAK").
     A pattern string can be a combination of valid filename characters and the
     asterisk (*) wildcard character. Do not include spaces in the pattern string.
 -defaultextension => STRING
     Contains the default extension. GetOpenFileName append this extension to the
     filename if the user fails to type an extension. This string can be any length,
     but only the first three characters are appended. The string should not contain a
     period (.).
 -defaultfilter => NUMBER
     Specifies the index of the currently selected filter in the File Types control.
     The first pair of strings has an index value of 0, the second pair 1, and so on.
 -createprompt => 0/1 (default 0)
     If the user specifies a file that does not exist, this flag causes the dialog box
     to prompt the user for permission to create the file. If the user chooses to create
     the file, the dialog box closes and the function returns the specified name; otherwise,
     the dialog box remains open. If you use this flag with the -multisel flag, the dialog
     box allows the user to specify only one nonexistent file.
 -multisel => 0/1 (default 0)
     Allow multiple file selection
     If the user selects more than one file then return filename with full path.
     If the user selects more than one file then return an array with the path
     to the current directory followed by the filenames of the selected files.
 -explorer => 0/1 (default 1)
     Explorer look.
 -extensiondifferent => 0/1 (default 0)
     Specifies that the user can typed a filename extension that differs from the extension
     specified by -defaultextension.
 -filemustexist => 0/1 (default 0)
     Specifies that the user can type only names of existing files in the File Name entry
     field. If this flag is specified and the user enters an invalid name, the dialog box
     procedure displays a warning in a message box.
 -hidereadonly => 0/1 (default 1)
     Hides the Read Only check box. If -hidereadonly is set to 0, the read only status is
     return only in array context as last value.
 -nochangedir => 0/1 (default 0)
     Restores the current directory to its original value if the user changed the directory
     while searching for files.
 -nodeferencelinks => 0/1 (default 0)
     Directs the dialog box to return the path and filename of the selected
     shortcut (.LNK) file. If this value is not given, the dialog box returns the
     path and filename of the file referenced by the shortcut.
 -nonetwork  => 0/1 (default 0)
     Hides and disables the Network button
 -noreadonlyreturn => 0/1 (default 0)
     Specifies that the returned file does not have the Read Only check box checked and is
     not in a write-protected directory.
 -pathmustexist => 0/1 (default 0)
     Specifies that the user can type only valid paths and filenames.
     If this flag is used and the user types an invalid path and filename in the File Name
     entry field, the dialog box function displays a warning in a message box.
 -readonly => 0/1 (default 0)
     Causes the Read Only check box to be checked initially when the dialog box is created.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetParent

B<GetParent()>

Returns the parent window for this child control/window. If there is no
parent window or there has been an error, undef is returned.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetPerlWindow

B<GetPerlWindow()>

Returns the handle of the command prompt window your perl script is
running in; if called in an array context, returns the handle and the
HINSTANCE of your perl process.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetSaveFileName

B<GetSaveFileName(%OPTIONS)>

Allowed B<%OPTIONS> are:

 -owner => WINDOW
     Identifies the window that owns the dialog box.
 -title => STRING
     The title for the dialog
 -directory => STRING
     Specifies the initial directory
 -file => STRING
     Specifies a name that will appear on the dialog's edit field
 -filter => ARRAY REFERENCE
     Specifies an array containing pairs of filter strings.
     The first string in each pair is a display string that describes the filter
     (for example, "Text Files"), and the second string specifies the filter pattern
     (for example, "*.TXT"). To specify multiple filter patterns for a single display
     string, use a semicolon to separate the patterns (for example, "*.TXT;*.DOC;*.BAK").
     A pattern string can be a combination of valid filename characters and the asterisk (*)
     wildcard character. Do not include spaces in the pattern string.
 -defaultextension => STRING
     Contains the default extension. GetSaveFileName append this extension to the filename if the user
     fails to type an extension. This string can be any length, but only the first three characters are
     appended. The string should not contain a period (.).
 -defaultfilter => NUMBER
     Specifies the index of the currently selected filter in the File Types control.
     The first pair of strings has an index value of 0, the second pair 1, and so on.
 -createprompt => 0/1 (default 0)
     If the user specifies a file that does not exist, this flag causes the dialog box to prompt
     the user for permission to create the file. If the user chooses to create the file, the dialog box
     closes and the function returns the specified name; otherwise, the dialog box remains open.
     If you use this flag with the -multisel flag, the dialog box allows the user to specify
     only one nonexistent file.
 -explorer => 0/1 (default 1)
     Explorer look.
 -extensiondifferent => 0/1 (default 0)
     Specifies that the user can typed a filename extension that differs from the extension
     specified by -defaultextension.
 -filemustexist => 0/1 (default 0)
     Specifies that the user can type only names of existing files in the File Name entry field.
     If this flag is specified and the user enters an invalid name, the dialog box procedure displays
     a warning in a message box.
 -nochangedir => 0/1 (default 0)
     Restores the current directory to its original value if the user changed the directory
     while searching for files.
 -nodeferencelinks => 0/1 (default 0)
     Directs the dialog box to return the path and filename of the selected shortcut (.LNK) file.
     If this value is not given, the dialog box returns the path and filename of the file
     referenced by the shortcut.
 -nonetwork  => 0/1 (default 0)
     Hides and disables the Network button
 -noreadonlyreturn => 0/1 (default 0)
     Specifies that the returned file is not in a write-protected directory.
 -pathmustexist => 0/1 (default 1)
     Specifies that the user can type only valid paths and filenames.
     If this flag is used and the user types an invalid path and filename in the File Name
     entry field, the dialog box function displays a warning in a message box.
 -overwriteprompt => 0/1 (default 1)
     Generate a message box if the selected file already exists. The user must confirm8
     whether to overwrite the file.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetStockObject

B<GetStockObject(OBJECT)>

Returns the handle of the specified predefined system object (pen, brush
or font).

B<OBJECT> can have one of the following values:

  0 WHITE_BRUSH
  1 GRAY_BRUSH
  2 LTGRAY_BRUSH
  3 DKGRAY_BRUSH
  4 BLACK_BRUSH
  5 NULL_BRUSH (also HOLLOW_BRUSH)
  6 WHITE_PEN
  7 BLACK_PEN
  8 NULL_PEN
 10 OEM_FIXED_FONT
 11 ANSI_FIXED_FONT
 12 ANSI_VAR_FONT
 13 SYSTEM_FONT
 14 DEVICE_DEFAULT_FONT
 15 DEFAULT_PALETTE
 16 SYSTEM_FIXED_FONT
 17 DEFAULT_GUI_FONT
 18 DC_BRUSH (Windows 2000/XP only)
 19 DC_PEN (Windows 2000/XP only)

The returned handle can be referenced as if it was a Win32::GUI object
(eg. a Win32::GUI::Brush or Win32::GUI::Font), but note that it is not
blessed, so you can't directly invoke methods on it:

   $Font = Win32::GUI::GetStockObject(17);    # DEFAULT_GUI_FONT
   print $Font->GetMetrics();                 # !!!WRONG!!!
   print Win32::GUI::Font::GetMetrics($Font); # correct
   $Window->SetFont($Font);                   # correct

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetSystemMetrics

B<GetSystemMetrics(INDEX)>

Retrieves various system metrics (dimensions of display elements) and
configuration settings. Too numerous to list here. See WinUser.h for
a complete list of SM_* constants that you can use for INDEX.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetTextExtentPoint32

B<GetTextExtentPoint32(STRING, [FONT])>

Returns a two elements array containing the x and y size of the
specified B<STRING> in the window (eventually with the speficied B<FONT>), or
undef on errors.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetTopWindow

B<GetTopWindow()>

Returns the handle of the foreground window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetWindow

B<GetWindow(COMMAND)>

Returns handle of the window that has the specified
relationship (given by B<COMMAND>) with the specified window.

Available B<COMMAND> are:

  GW_CHILD
  GW_HWNDFIRST
  GW_HWNDLAST
  GW_HWNDNEXT
  GW_HWNDPREV
  GW_OWNER

Example:

    $Button->GetWindow(GW_OWNER);

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetWindowLong

B<GetWindowLong(INDEX)>

Retrieves a windows property; for more info consult the original API
documentation.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetWindowRect

B<GetWindowRect()>

Returns a four elements array defining the windows rectangle (left, top,
right, bottom) in screen co-ordinates or undef on errors.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetWindowThreadProcessId

B<GetWindowThreadProcessId()>

Returns a two elements array containing the thread and the process
identifier for the specified window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Height

B<Height([HEIGHT])>

Sets or retrieves the height of a window.

See also L<Resize()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Resize>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Hide

B<Hide()>

Hides a window or control.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Hook

B<Hook(MSG,CODEREF)>

Adds a new handler to the list of handlers for a particular window
message / command / notification.

Hook() can be used with the New Event Model and the Old Event Model. You
can Hook() normal window messages, WM_COMMAND codes and WM_NOTIFY codes.
You can add as many hooks for one message as you like. To remove hooks
see L<UnHook()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/UnHook>.

Here's an example Perl handler routine:

 sub click_handler {
    ($object, $wParam, $lParam, $type, $msgcode) = @_;
    print "Click handler called!\n";
 }

Here, $object is the Perl object for the widget, $wParam and $lParam are
the parameters received with the message, $type is the type of message
(0, WM_NOTIFY or WM_COMMAND, see below), and $msgcode is the original
numeric code for the message.

If you call Hook() on a child widget, such as a button, the Hook will be
called if the parent window receives WM_COMMAND and the code given with
WM_COMMAND matches the MSG argument you passed to Hook(). Put simply,
what this means is that things like

    $button->Hook(BN_CLICKED, \&button_clicked);

will work. When your handler is called it will be passed a $type argument
of WM_COMMAND (numeric 273).

The same is true for WM_NOTIFY messages, although handlers defined for
those are passed a $type argument of WM_NOTIFY (numeric 78).

Any message that was not WM_NOTIFY or WM_COMMAND gets passed a $type of 0.
It is important to check your $type argument. Certain codes for WM_COMMAND
messages may conflict with codes for WM_NOTIFY messages or regular window
messages, meaning the handler you defined for a particular WM_NOTIFY code
may get triggered by a WM_COMMAND code. The $type argument is there to
allow you to check this. The rule is to just return immediately if $type
is not what you were expecting.

If Hook() successfully added a hook for the event, it returns true. If
the hook already exists (the coderef you gave is already in the list of
hooks for the specified event), or if there was an error in creating the
new hook, it returns false.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 InvalidateRect

B<InvalidateRect(...)>

Forces a refresh of a window, or a rectangle of it.

The parameters can be B<(FLAG)> for the whole area of the window, or B<(LEFT, TOP, RIGHT, BOTTOM,
[FLAG])> to specify a rectangle. If the B<FLAG> parameter is set to TRUE, the
background is erased before the window is refreshed (this is the default).

See also L<Redraw()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Redraw>
See also L<Update()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Update>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 IsEnabled

B<IsEnabled()>

Returns TRUE if the window is enabled, FALSE otherwise.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 IsIconic

B<IsIconic()>

Returns TRUE if the window is minimized, FALSE otherwise.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 IsVisible

B<IsVisible()>

Returns TRUE if the window is visible, FALSE otherwise.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 IsWindow

B<IsWindow()>

Returns TRUE if the window is a window, FALSE otherwise.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 IsZoomed

B<IsZoomed()>

Returns TRUE if the window is maximized, FALSE otherwise.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Left

B<Left([LEFT])>

Gets or sets the left co-ordinate of an object, relative to the object's
parent if it has one, or absolute screen co-ordinate if it doesn't.

See also L<AbsLeft()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/AbsLeft>
See also L<Move()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Move>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 LoadCursor

B<LoadCursor(ID)>

This function loads one of the default cursors. ID can be one of:

 32650 IDC_APPSTARTING  Standard arrow and small hourglass
 32512 IDC_ARROW        Standard arrow
 32515 IDC_CROSS        Crosshair
 32649 IDC_HAND         Windows 98/Me, Windows 2000/XP: Hand
 32651 IDC_HELP         Arrow and question mark
 32513 IDC_IBEAM        I-beam
 32641 IDC_ICON         Obsolete for applications marked version 4.0 or later.
 32648 IDC_NO           Slashed circle
 32640 IDC_SIZE         Obsolete for applications marked version 4.0 or later. Use IDC_SIZEALL.
 32646 IDC_SIZEALL      Four-pointed arrow pointing north, south, east, and west
 32643 IDC_SIZENESW     Double-pointed arrow pointing northeast and southwest
 32645 IDC_SIZENS       Double-pointed arrow pointing north and south
 32642 IDC_SIZENWSE     Double-pointed arrow pointing northwest and southeast
 32644 IDC_SIZEWE       Double-pointed arrow pointing west and east
 32516 IDC_UPARROW      Vertical arrow
 32514 IDC_WAIT         Hourglass

On success returns a Win32::GUI::Cursor object, on failure undef.

Example:

my $hourglass=Win32::GUI::LoadCursor(32514);

NOTE: it is better to use Win32::GUI::Cursor->new(ID);

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 LoadLibrary

B<LoadLibrary(NAME)>

The LoadLibrary function maps the specified executable module into the
address space of the calling process.

The return value is a handle to the module, or undef on failure.

Directory seperators are normalised to windows seperators (C<\>).

Under Cygwin, cygwin paths are converted to windows paths

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 LoadResource

B<LoadResource(NAME)>

Loads a generic resource from the EXE file that your perl process is
running as. This is for use when distributing your application. Resources
can be packed into the EXE file using many tools including ResHacker.

Note that packing resources into a PAR executable will not work. You must
first pack the resources into par.exe then use PAR to build your
executable.

For this routine to work, any resources you wish to load with it must
be added to the executable with the RCDATA resource type.

If the resource is not found in the EXE, this function will return NULL,
otherwise it will return a scalar containing the raw resource data.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 LoadString

B<LoadString(ID)>

The LoadString method loads a string resource from the executable file

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 LockWindowUpdate

B<LockWindowUpdate(flag)>

The LockWindowUpdate method disables or enables drawing in the specified window. Only one window
can be locked at a time.

If an application with a locked window (or any locked child windows) calls the GetDC function,
the called function returns a device context with a visible region that is empty. This will
occur until the application unlocks the window by calling LockWindowUpdate method specifying a
value for the flag.
Example:
$win->LockWindowUpdate;     #Locks window
$win->LockWindowUpdate(1);  #Unlocks window

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Maximize

B<Maximize()>

Maximizes a window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 MessageBeep

B<MessageBeep([TYPE=MB_OK])>

Plays a sound.

B<TYPE> specifies the sound type :

 MB_OK : Play SystemDefault sound.
 MB_ICONASTERISK : Play SystemAsterisk sound.
 MB_ICONEXCLAMATION : Play SystemExclamation sound.
 MB_ICONHAND : Play SystemHand sound.
 MB_ICONQUESTION : Play SystemQuestion sound.
 0xFFFFFFFF Play Standard beep using the computer speaker

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 MessageBox

B<MessageBox([HANDLE], TEXT, [CAPTION], [TYPE])>

Shows a standard Windows message box and waits for the user to dismiss it.
You can set the window that the message box corresponds to by passing
a specific B<HANDLE> (window handle or object). The given B<TEXT> will appear
in the message box client area, and the given B<CAPTION> text will appear
in the message box titlebar. B<TYPE> specifies various flags that change
the appearance of the message box. These are:

To set which buttons appear on the message box, specify one of the following values:

 0x0000 MB_OK show an OK button
 0x0001 MB_OKCANCEL show an OK button and a Cancel button
 0x0002 MB_ABORTRETRYIGNORE show Abort, Retry and Ignore buttons
 0x0003 MB_YESNOCANCEL show Yes, No and Cancel buttons
 0x0004 MB_YESNO show Yes and No buttons
 0x0005 MB_RETRYCANCEL show Retry and Cancel buttons
 0x0006 MB_CANCELTRYCONTINUE show Cancel, Try Again and Continue buttons (2000/XP only)

To add a help button to the message box, specify the following value:

 0x4000 MB_HELP

To show an icon in the message box, specify one of these values:

 0x0010 MB_ICONHAND show a stop-sign icon (used for errors)
 0x0020 MB_ICONQUESTION show a question mark icon
 0x0030 MB_ICONEXCLAMATION show an exclamation mark icon (used for warnings)
 0x0040 MB_ICONASTERISK show an asterisk icon (the letter "i" in a circle) (used for information)

To set a default button, specify one of these values (if none of these are specified, the first
button will be the default button):

 0x0100 MB_DEFBUTTON2 The second button is default
 0x0200 MB_DEFBUTTON3 The third button is default
 0x0300 MB_DEFBUTTON4 The fourth button is default

To specify how the message box affects other windows and various other flags, use one or
more of the following values:

 0x0000   MB_APPLMODAL The user must dismiss the message box before continuing work in
             the window specified by HANDLE (this is the default)
 0x1000   MB_SYSTEMMODAL Same as MB_APPLMODAL but the window appears on top of all other
             windows on the desktop.
 0x2000   MB_TASKMODAL Same as MB_APPLMODAL except that all the top-level windows belonging
             to the current thread are disabled if no HANDLE is specified
 0x8000   MB_NOFOCUS Does not give the message box input focus
 0x10000  MB_SETFOREGROUND Makes the message box become the foreground window
 0x20000  MB_DEFAULT_DESKTOP_ONLY If the current desktop is not the default
             desktop, MessageBox will not return until the user switches to the default desktop
 0x40000  MB_TOPMOST Makes the message box become the topmost window
 0x80000  MB_RIGHT Makes text in the message box right-aligned
 0x100000 MB_RTLREADING Displays message and caption text using right-to-left reading
             order on Hebrew and Arabic systems.
 0x200000 MB_SERVICE_NOTIFICATION Displays the message box even if no user is logged
             in on Windows NT/2000/XP. You should not specify a HANDLE when using this.

To combine several values together, use a bitwise OR operator (|).

MessageBox will return one of the following values depending on the user's action:

  1 IDOK       The user clicked the OK button.
  2 IDCANCEL   The user clicked the Cancel button.
  3 IDABORT    The user clicked the Abort button.
  4 IDRETRY    The user clicked the Retry button.
  5 IDIGNORE   The user clicked the Ignore button.
  6 IDYES      The user clicked the Yes button.
  7 IDNO       The user clicked the No button.
  8 IDCLOSE    The user closed the message box.
  9 IDHELP     The user clicked the Help button.
 10 IDTRYAGAIN The user clicked the Try Again button.
 11 IDCONTINUE The user clicked the Continue button.

The default B<TYPE> value is a warning icon with an OK button (MB_ICONEXCLAMATION|MB_OK).

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Minimize

B<Minimize()>

See L<CloseWindow()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/CloseWindow>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Move

B<Move(X, Y)>

Moves a window to the given B<X> and B<Y> co-ordinates.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 OpenIcon

B<OpenIcon()>

Restores a minimized window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 PeekMessage

B<PeekMessage([MIN, MAX, MESSAGE])>

Inspects the window's message queue and eventually returns data
about the message it contains; it can optionally check only for message
identifiers in the range B<MIN..MAX>; the last B<MESSAGE parameter>, if
specified, must be an array reference.

If a message is found, the function puts in that array 7 elements
containing:

  - the handle of the window to which the message is addressed
  - the message identifier
  - the wParam argument
  - the lParam argument
  - the time when message occurs
  - the x coordinate at which message occurs
  - the y coordinate at which message occurs

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 PlayEnhMetaFile

B<PlayEnhMetaFile(FILENAME)>

Displays the picture stored in the specified enhanced-format metafile.
This function use current window device context (-DC).

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 PlayWinMetaFile

B<PlayWinMetaFile(FILENAME)>

Displays the picture stored in the specified enhanced-format metafile.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 PostMessage

B<PostMessage(MSG, WPARAM, LPARAM)>

Posts a message to a window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 PostQuitMessage

B<PostQuitMessage([EXITCODE])>

Sends a quit message to a window, optionally with an B<EXITCODE>;
if no B<EXITCODE> is given, it defaults to 0.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Redraw

B<Redraw()>

Repaints a window

See also L<Update()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Update>
See also L<InvalidateRect()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/InvalidateRect>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ReleaseCapture

B<ReleaseCapture()>

Releases the mouse capture.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Resize

B<Resize(WIDTH, HEIGHT)>

Resizes a window to the given B<WIDTH> and B<HEIGHT>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Restore

B<Restore()>

See L<OpenIcon()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/OpenIcon>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Result

B<Result(HANDLE, RESULT)>

Explicitly set the result to be returned from a handler. For safety and
backwards compatibility, results returned from Win32::GUI handlers are
discarded. You can use this method (with GREAT CARE) to explicitly force
a return value for your handler. Consult the API documentation for valid
return values as they vary from message to message.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SaveBMP

B<SaveBMP(handle)>

Saves the window content to a BMP file.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ScaleHeight

B<ScaleHeight()>

Returns the windows client area height.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ScaleWidth

B<ScaleWidth()>

Returns the windows client area width.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ScreenToClient

B<ScreenToClient(X, Y)>

Converts screen co-ordinates to client-area co-ordinates.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Scroll

B<Scroll(scrollbar,operation[,position, [thumbtrack_flag]])>

Handles scrollbar scrolling if you don't want to do it yourself. This is
most useful in the Scroll event handler for a window or dialog box.

B<scrollbar> can be:

  SB_HOR(0)  : Horizontal scrollbar
  SB_VERT(1) : Vertical scrollbar

B<operation> is an identifier for the operation being performed on the
scrollbar, this can be:

  SB_LINEUP, SB_LINELEFT, SB_LINEDOWN, SB_LINERIGHT, SB_PAGEUP
  SB_PAGELEFT, SB_PAGEDOWN, SB_PAGERIGHT, SB_THUMBPOSITION,
  SB_THUMBTRACK, SB_TOP, SB_LEFT, SB_BOTTOM, SB_RIGHT, or SB_ENDSCROLL

B<position> is ignored unless B<operation> is SB_THUMBPOSITION, or
B<operation> is SB_THUMBTRACK and B<thumbtrack_flag> is TRUE. If
B<position> is not provided (or provided and equal to -1), then
the position used is taken from the internal scrollbar structure:
this is the prefered method of operation.

B<thumbtrack_flag> indicates whether SB_THUMBTRACK messages are
processed (TRUE) or not (FALSE).  It defaults to false.

Returns the new position of the scrollbar, or undef on failure.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ScrollPage

B<ScrollPage(scrollbar,[pagesize])>

Sets / Gets page size of a window scrollbar (if enabled).
B<scrollbar> argument should be set as follows:

  0 : Horizontal scrollbar
  1 : Vertical scrollbar

Returns the scrollbar page size or undef on failure.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ScrollPos

B<ScrollPos(scrollbar,[pos])>

Sets / Gets position of a window scrollbar (if enabled).
B<scrollbar> argument should be set as follows:

  0 : Horizontal scrollbar
  1 : Vertical scrollbar

Returns the scrollbar position or undef on failure.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ScrollRange

B<ScrollRange(scrollbar,[min, max])>

Sets / Gets range for a window scrollbar (if enabled).
B<scrollbar> argument should be set as follows:

  0 : Horizontal scrollbar
  1 : Vertical scrollbar

Returns the scrollbar range as an array, or undef on failure.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SendMessage

B<SendMessage(MSG, WPARAM, LPARAM)>

Sends a message to a window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SendMessageTimeout

B<SendMessageTimeout(MSG, WPARAM, LPARAM, [FLAGS=SMTO_NORMAL], TIMEOUT)>

Sends a message to a window and wait for it to be processed or until the
specified B<TIMEOUT> (number of milliseconds) elapses.

Returns the result code of the processed message or undef on errors.

If undef is returned and a call to Win32::GetLastError() returns 0,
then the window timed out processing the message.

The B<FLAGS> parameter is optional, possible values are:

 0 : SMTO_NORMAL
     The calling thread can process other requests while waiting; this is the default setting.
 1 : SMTO_BLOCK
     The calling thread does not process other requests.
 2 : SMTO_ABORTIFHUNG
     Returns without waiting if the receiving process seems to be "hung".

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetActiveWindow

B<SetActiveWindow()>

Activates a window.
Returns the handle of the previously active window or 0.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetCapture

B<SetCapture()>

Assigns the mouse capture to a window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetCursor

B<SetCursor(CURSOR)>

Draws the specified B<CURSOR> (a Win32::GUI::Cursor object). Returns the
handle of the previously displayed cursor. Note that the cursor will
change back to the default one as soon as the mouse moves or a system
command is performed. To change the cursor stablily, use ChangeCursor().

see also L<ChangeCursor()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/ChangeCursor>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetCursorPos

B<SetCursorPos(X, Y)>

Moves the mouse cursor to the specified screen coordinates.

see also L<GetCursorPos()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/GetCursorPos>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetEvent

B<SetEvent(NAME,HANDLER)>

Sets an event. If the New Event Model is being used, this will enable
the specified event and set it to be handled by the specified C<HANDLER>,
which should be a code-reference.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetFocus

B<SetFocus()>

Set focus to a window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetFont

B<SetFont(FONT)>

Sets the font of the window (FONT is a Win32::GUI::Font object).

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetForegroundWindow

B<SetForegroundWindow()>

Brings the window to the foreground.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetIcon

B<SetIcon(ICON, [TYPE])>

Sets the icon of the window; B<TYPE> can be 0 for the small icon, 1 for
the big icon. Default is the same icon for small and big.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetMenu

B<SetMenu(MENU)>

Associates the specified MENU to a window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetRedraw

B<SetRedraw(FLAG)>

Determines if a window is automatically redrawn when its content changes.

B<FLAG> can be a true value to allow redraw, false to prevent it.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetWindowLong

B<SetWindowLong(INDEX, VALUE)>

Sets a windows property; for more info consult the original API
documentation.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetWindowPos

B<SetWindowPos(INSERTAFTER,X,Y,cx,cy,FLAGS)>

The SetWindowPos function changes the size, position,
and Z order of a child, pop-up, or top-level
window. Child, pop-up, and top-level windows are
ordered according to their appearance on the
screen. The topmost window receives the highest rank
and is the first window in the Z order.

INSERTAFTER - window to precede the positioned window
in the Z order. This parameter must be a window object,
a window handle or one of the following integer values.

  HWND_BOTTOM
    Places the window at the bottom of the Z order. If
    the WINDOW parameter identifies a topmost window,
    the window loses its topmost status and is placed
    at the bottom of all other windows.
  HWND_NOTOPMOST
    Places the window above all non-topmost windows
    (that is, behind all topmost windows). This flag
    has no effect if the window is already a
    non-topmost window.
  HWND_TOP
    Places the window at the top of the Z order.
  HWND_TOPMOST
    Places the window above all non-topmost
    windows. The window maintains its topmost position
    even when it is deactivated.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetWindowRgn

B<SetWindowRgn(region,flag)>

The SetWindowRgn method sets the window region of a window. The window region determines the area
within the window where the system permits drawing. The system does not display any portion of a window
that lies outside of the window region

flag : Specifies whether the system redraws the window after setting the window region. If flag is TRUE,
the system does so; otherwise, it does not.
Typically, you set flag to TRUE if the window is visible.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ShellExecute

B<ShellExecute(window,operation,file,parameters,directory,showcmd)>

Performs an operation on a file.

B<Operation>. A string that specifies the action to be performed. The set of available action verbs depends
on the particular file or folder. Generally, the actions available from an object's shortcut menu are
available verbs.

  edit     - Launches an editor and opens the document for editing. If File is not a document file,
             the function will fail.
  explore  - Explores the folder specified by File.
  find     - Initiates a search starting from the specified directory.
  open     - Opens the file specified by the File parameter. The file can be an executable file,
             a document file, or a folder.
  print    - Prints the document file specified by lpFile. If lpFile is not a document file,
             the function will fail.
  ""(NULL) - For systems prior to Microsoft Windows 2000, the default verb is used if it is valid
             and available in the registry. If not, the "open" verb is used. For Windows 2000 and
             later systems, the default verb is used if available. If not, the "open" verb is used.
             If neither verb is available, the system uses the first verb listed in the registry.

B<File>. A string that specifies the file or object on which to execute the specified verb. To specify
a Shell namespace object, pass the fully qualified parse name. Note that not all verbs are supported on
all objects. For example, not all document types support the "print" verb.

B<Parameters>. If the File parameter specifies an executable file, Parameters is a string that specifies
the parameters to be passed to the application. The format of this string is determined by the verb that
is to be invoked. If File specifies a document file, Parameters should be NULL.

B<Directory>. A string that specifies the default directory.

B<ShowCmd>. Flags that speciow an application is to be displayed when it is opened. If File specifies a
document file, the flag is simply passed to the associated application. It is up to the application to
decide how to handle it.

  0  SW_HIDE            Hides the window and activates another window.
  3  SW_MAXIMIZE        Maximizes the specified window.
  6  SW_MINIMIZE        Minimizes the specified window and activates the next top-level window in the z-order.
  9  SW_RESTORE         Activates and displays the window. If the window is minimized or maximized,
                        Windows restores it to its original size and position. An application should specify
                        this flag when restoring a minimized window.
  5  SW_SHOW            Activates the window and displays it in its current size and position.
  10 SW_SHOWDEFAULT     Sets the show state based on the SW_ flag specified in the STARTUPINFO structure
                        passed to the CreateProcess function by the program that started the application.
                        An application should call ShowWindow with this flag to set the initial show state of
                        its main window.
  2  SW_SHOWMINIMIZED   Activates the window and displays it as a minimized window.
  7  SW_SHOWMINNOACTIVE Displays the window as a minimized window. The active window remains active.
  8  SW_SHOWNA          Displays the window in its current state. The active window remains active.
  4  SW_SHOWNOACTIVATE  Displays a window in its most recent size and position. The active window remains active.
  1  SW_SHOWNORMAL      Activates and displays a window. If the window is minimized or maximized, Windows
                        restores it to its original size and position. An application should specify this flag
                        when displaying the window for the first time.

Returns a value greater than 32 if successful, or an error value that is less than or equal to 32 otherwise.
The following table lists the error values.

  0  The operating system is out of memory or resources.
  3  ERROR_PATH_NOT_FOUND   The specified path was not found.
  11 ERROR_BAD_FORMAT       The .exe file is invalid (non-Microsoft Win32 .exe or error in .exe image).
  5  SE_ERR_ACCESSDENIED    The operating system denied access to the specified file.
  27 SE_ERR_ASSOCINCOMPLETE The file name association is incomplete or invalid.
  30 SE_ERR_DDEBUSY         The Dynamic Data Exchange (DDE) transaction could not be completed because
                            other DDE transactions were being processed.
  29 SE_ERR_DDEFAIL         The DDE transaction failed.
  28 SE_ERR_DDETIMEOUT      The DDE transaction could not be completed because the request timed out.
  32 SE_ERR_DLLNOTFOUND     The specified dynamic-link library (DLL) was not found.
  2  SE_ERR_FNF             The specified file was not found.
  31 SE_ERR_NOASSOC         There is no application associated with the given file name extension. This
                            error will also be returned if you attempt to print a file that is not printable.
  8  SE_ERR_OOM             There was not enough memory to complete the operation.
  3  SE_ERR_PNF             The specified path was not found.
  26 SE_ERR_SHARE           A sharing violation occurred.

Examples:

Open a web page in the default browser

  my $exitval = $win->ShellExecute('open','http://www.perl.org','','',1);

Open a text file in nodepad

  my $exitval = $win->ShellExecute('open','notepad.exe','readme.txt','',1) ;

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Show

B<Show([COMMAND=SW_SHOWNORMAL])>

Shows a window (or change its showing state to B<COMMAND>);

Available B<COMMAND> are:

  0  : SW_HIDE
  1  : SW_SHOWNORMAL
  1  : SW_NORMAL
  2  : SW_SHOWMINIMIZED
  3  : SW_SHOWMAXIMIZED
  3  : SW_MAXIMIZE
  4  : SW_SHOWNOACTIVATE
  5  : SW_SHOW
  6  : SW_MINIMIZE
  7  : SW_SHOWMINNOACTIVE
  8  : SW_SHOWNA
  9  : SW_RESTORE
  10 : SW_SHOWDEFAULT
  11 : SW_FORCEMINIMIZE
  11 : SW_MAX

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Text

B<Text([TEXT])>

Sets or gets the text associated with a window or control. For example,
for windows, this is the text in the titlebar of the window. For button
controls, it's the text on the button, and so on. Text() and Caption()
are synonymous with oneanother.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Top

B<Top([TOP])>

Gets or sets the top co-ordinate of an object, relative to the object's
parent if it has one, or absolute screen co-ordinate if it doesn't.

See also L<AbsTop()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/AbsTop>
See also L<Move()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Move>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 TrackMouse

B<TrackMouse([TIMEOUT=HOVER_DEFAULT, EVENTS=TME_HOVER|TME_LEAVE])>

Causes the window to receive messages when the mouse pointer leaves a
window or hovers over a window for a specified amount of time (B<TIMEOUT>, in
milliseconds).

B<EVENTS> can be set to one or more of the following values (ORed together):

 0x0001 TME_HOVER     Makes the window receive WM_MOUSEHOVER messages when the mouse hovers over it.
 0x0002 TME_LEAVE     Makes the window receive a WM_MOUSELEAVE message when the mouse leaves it.
 0x0010 TME_NONCLIENT Specifies that the non-client area should be included when tracking the mouse.
                      The window will receive WM_NCMOUSEHOVER and WM_NCMOUSELEAVE messages depending
                      on whether TME_HOVER and/or TME_LEAVE are set.

See also L<UntrackMouse()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/UntrackMouse>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 TrackPopupMenu

B<TrackPopupMenu(MENU [, X, Y [, LEFT, TOP, RIGHT, BOTTOM] [, FLAGS [, CODEREF]]])>

Displays the menu B<MENU> at the specified co-ordinates (X,Y) and tracks the
selection of items on the menu. X and Y are absolute screen co-ordinates.

If X and Y are not provided, uses the current cursor position.

If LEFT, TOP, RIGHT and BOTTOM are provided they describe a rectangle in absolute screen
co-ordinates over which the menu will not be drawn (the excluded rectangle).

The following flags can be set (combine flags with bitwise OR (|) )

  0x0000 TPM_LEFTBUTTON      Menu items can only be selected with left mouse button
  0x0002 TPM_RIGHTBUTTON     Menu items can be selected with either left or right mouse button
  0x0000 TPM_LEFTALIGN       Menu is aligned to the left of the given X co-ordinate
  0x0004 TPM_CENTERALIGN     Menu is centered on the given X co-ordinate
  0x0008 TPM_RIGHTALIGN      Menu is aligned to the right of the given X co-ordinate
  0x0000 TPM_TOPALIGN        Menu is aligned above the given Y co-ordinate
  0x0010 TPM_VCENTERALIGN    Menu is centered on the given Y co-ordinate
  0x0020 TPM_BOTTOMALIGN     Menu is aligned below the given Y co-ordinate
  0x0100 TPM_RETURNCMD       TrackPopupMenu returns the selected menu item identifier in the return value
  0x0400 TPM_HORPOSANIMATION Menu will be animated from left to right (ignored if menu fading is on)
  0x0800 TPM_HORNEGANIMATION Menu will be animated from right to left (ignored if menu fading is on)
  0x1000 TPM_VERPOSANIMATION Menu will be animated from top to bottom (ignored if menu fading is on)
  0x2000 TPM_VERNEGANIMATION Menu will be animated from bottom to top (ignored if menu fading is on)
  0x4000 TPM_NOANIMATION     Menu will not be animated and will not "fade" in and out even if menu
                             fading is enabled
  0x0001 TPM_RECURSE         Allows you to display a menu when another menu is already displayed.
                             This is intended to support context menus within a menu. (Windows 2000/XP only)

The default flags are C<TPM_LEFTALIGN | TPM_TOPALIGN | TPM_LEFTBUTTON>

If an excluded rectangle is spefified then the following flags may also be used, and TPM_VERTICAL is added to
the default flags:

  0x0000 TPM_HORIZONTAL      If the menu cannot be shown at the specified location without overlapping
                             the excluded rectangle, the system tries to accommodate the requested
                             horizontal alignment before the requested vertical alignment.
  0x0040 TPM_VERTICAL        If the menu cannot be shown at the specified location without overlapping
                             the excluded rectangle, the system tries to accommodate the requested
                             vertical alignment before the requested horizontal alignment.

If you specify C<TPM_RETURNCMD>, then the menu item ID of the selected item is returned. If an error
occurs or the user does not select an item, zero is returned.
If you do not specify C<TPM_RETURNCMD>, the return value will be nonzero on success or zero on failure.

If B<CODEREF> is provided, then it is a code reference to a callback procedure that will be called for windows
events that occur while the menu is displayed (normally such events are not available, as TrackPopupMenu has
its own internal event loop).  The callback will recieve a reference to the Win32::GUI object used to call
TrackPopupMenu on, and the message code, wParam and lParam of the event that occured. The callback should
return nothing or 1 to allow the event to be processed normally, or 0 to prevent the event being passed to the
default event handler.  See MSDN documentation for SetWindowsHookEx with idHook set to WH_MSGFILTER for
the full gore.

The callback prototype is:

    sub callback {
        my ($self, $message, $wParam, $lParam) = @_;

        # Process messages you are interested in

        return;
    }

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 UnHook

B<UnHook(MSG,[CODEREF])>

Removes a specific code reference from the hooks listing for the given
message, or removes all code references for the given message if no
coderef is specified.

Returns true on success, and false on failure (no such hook).

See L<Hook()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Hook> documentation for more information on hooks and their
usage.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 UntrackMouse

B<UntrackMouse()>

Disables the tracking of mouse hover or leave events for a window.

See also L<TrackMouse()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/TrackMouse>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Update

B<Update()>

Repaints a window if it's update region is not empty.

see also L<Redraw()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Redraw>
see also L<InvalidateRect()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/InvalidateRect>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 UserData

B<UserData([value])>

Sets or reads user data associated with the window or control.

 my $data=$win->UserData();#retrieve any data associated with the window
 $win->UserData('some string');#associate user data to the window

User data can be any perl scalar or reference.

When reading returns the stored user data, or undef if nothing is stored.
When setting returns a true value if the user data is stored correctly, or
a false value on error

If you are writing a class that you expect others to use, then this
method should B<NOT> be used to store class instance data. See
L<ClassData()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/ClassData> instead.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Version

B<Version()>

Returns the module version number.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 WaitMessage

B<WaitMessage()>

The WaitMessage function yields control to other threads when a thread
has no other messages in its message queue. The WaitMessage function suspends
the thread and does not return until a new message is placed in the thread's
message queue.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Width

B<Width([WIDTH])>

Sets or retrieves the width of a window.

See also L<Resize()|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods/Resize>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 WindowFromPoint

B<WindowFromPoint(X, Y)>

Returns the handle of the window at the specified screen position.




=for comment $Id: per_package_event_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 EVENTS

L<Common events|Win32::GUI::Reference::Events> apply to most windows and controls.





=for comment $Id: pod_postamble.tpl,v 1.2 2005/08/03 21:45:59 robertemay Exp $

=head1 VERSION

Documentation for Win32::GUI v1.13 created 26 Jul 2016

This document is autogenerated by the build process. Edits made here will be lost.
Edit F<docs/per_package.tpl> instead.

=head1 SUPPORT

Homepage: L<http://perl-win32-gui.sourceforge.net/>.

For further support join the users mailing list from the website
at L<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/perl-win32-gui-users>.  There is a searchable list archive at L<http://sourceforge.net/p/perl-win32-gui/mailman/perl-win32-gui-users/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENCE

Copyright (c) 1997..2016 Aldo Calpini. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.


