=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

BalanceOfPower::Manual - Instructions to play

=head1 SCENARIO

Balance Of Power throws you in an alternative universe. The year is the 1970 and the nations are the same from L<Balance of Power videogame|http://www.old-games.com/download/4171/balance-of-power-1990-edition/>, but superpowers don't exist so global politics is very different.

As in our universe, every nation just wants to prevail on the others, be rich, help his friends and kill his enemies. Every turn, all of them do many action to reach these objectives, making the world a dynamic and dangerous place.

The role of the player IS NOT to be involved by nations to aid them with politics, because in XXI century we all now that the real power lays in the shadows and uses money to manipulate the world. BoP player is a plutocrat, he buys and sells stocks coming from the nations and gain from the fluctations of their wealth. To obtain better results he can influence poltical decisions.

=head1 OBJECTIVE OF THE GAME

Your objective is to gain from the stock market as much money as you can.

=head1 THE STOCK MARKET

Every nation has a number of stocks, based on its dimensions. The value of a stock is the w/d (wealth for dimension) value that the nation had the previous turn.

    Italy
    ===
    Area: Europe
    Export quote: 50
    Government strength: 60
    Internal situation: Peace

    Italy is free

    Size    Prod.   Wealth  W/D     Growth  Disor.  Army    Prog.   Pstg.
    2       150     155     38.75   1.03    9.44    8       0       2       

    In this example Italy stock's value is 38.75

The player can buy and sell stocks of any nation. Considering that w/d change from turn to turn because of the actions of the nation, a good timing with these two actions can give a great gain.

=head2 STOCK COMMANDS

Here are the commands you can use to manage your stock

=head3 buy X NATION

Allow you to buy X stocks from nation.

=head3 sell X NATION

Allow you to sell X stocks of nation.

Buy and sell commands, when typed, are just registered. They will be executed when the turn will be elaborated. In that moment they can fail for many reasons.

=head3 show stock orders

List all the orders registered for the next turn

=head3 empty stock orders

Erase all the stock orders registered

=head3 remove stock orders NATION

Erase all the orders issued about NATION

=head3 market

Give back statistics about the market for every nation

=head3 show stocks

Give back informations about the stocks owned by the player

=head3 stockevents TURN

Display all the events about the player for the given TURN. If no TURN is given events are about the previous.

=head2 WAR AND WAR BONDS

When a nation is at war it creates war bonds every turn. If you own stocks of the nation you have to buy on of them if you have the money to afford it. At the end of the war, if the nation won it, you'll have back your money doubled. If the nation lose, you'll lost them all.

=head2 CIVIL WAR

You can't execute operations about stocks of a nation during its civil war. YOu can't buy them and you can't sell them. When the civil war is finished, if rebels win, all the stocks owned vanish.

=head1 INFLUENCE AND CONTROL

Every time you buy stocks from a nation you obtain influence on it. You can spend influence to order a nation to do something. When you control a nation you can access all the commands a nation can use during the turn.

=head2 CONTROL COMMANDS

=head3 control NATION

If you have influence on NATION this command make you control it. The prompt changes a little.

    [Player One, Money: 767.5, Influence: 3. Turn is 1976/2]
    Controlling Italy (Int:87.5    Exp:87.5    Prtg:1    Army:8)
    (Italy [3]) ? 

All the resources available for the nation are displayed. In I<control mode> 
you can select nations to display their statistics and give orders.

Here are all the orders available:

    DIPLOMATIC PRESSURE ON
    REBEL MILITARY SUPPORT
    ADD ROUTE
    DELETE TRADEROUTE
    MILITARY SUPPORT
    RECALL MILITARY SUPPORT
    AID INSURGENTS IN
    DECLARE WAR TO
    MILITARY AID FOR
    ECONOMIC AID FOR
    TREATY NAG WITH
    BUILD TROOPS
    PROGRESS
    BOOST PRODUCTION
    RECALL REBEL MILITARY SUPPORT
    LOWER DISORDER
    TREATY COM WITH

=head3 clearorders

In I<Contro mode> this command erase a command issued for controlled nation

=head3 uncontrol

Stop control

=head3 show control orders

List all the control orders issued for controlled nations

=head1 TRAVEL

The player has a position in the world. To change the position you have to travel to another country.

=head3 go NATION

The go command move you to NATION. Moving to a nation cost movement points. See the cost of travels in the section about travels command.

=head3 travels

This report gives you available travels and their cost. Rules are:

=over

=item *

All the countries that have border with the one you are in can be reached by ground with a cost of 2 TU.

=item *

All the countries that have a trade route with the one you are in can be reached by air.

=item *

Cost of air travel is a number of TU as the distance from the country (country on border: 1TU)

=item *

You can't travel by air if one of the countries on the path is involved in a war

=back

=head1 THE SHOP

Every country has a shop with five types of objects. The price of every type is based on a characteristic of the country. Higher is the characteristics, lower the price.

=over

=item *

goods depends on production

=item *

luxury depends on wealth

=item *

arms depends on army

=item *

tech depends on progress

=item *

culture depends on prestige

=back

You can buy them in the country as long as you have money and hold to do that. You can try to earn money buying where the price is low and selling where it's high

=head3 sbuy X TYPE

Buy at the shop of the country X units of TYPE

=head3 ssel X TYPE

Sell at the shop of the country X units of TYPE

=head3 prices NATION

Show the prices of the NATION

=head3 cargo

Show your cargo


=head1 REPORTS

You can display many reports to decide how to manage your stocks.

=head2 GENERAL REPORTS

Here is a list of the reports you can see about general situation.

    crises
    wars
    alliances
    influences
    hotspots
    war history
    treaties
    situation [ORDERBY]
    supports
    rebel supports
    distance [NATION1]-[NATION2]

Writing a turn or an year you can obtain events happened then.

=head2 NATION REPORTS

You can select a nation naming it. Then you can retrieve many reports about it. If you want a nation report without selecting the nation just write the name of the nation before the report.

    borders
    near
    relations
    events [TURN or YEAR]
    status
    history
    plot [VARIABLE]

If you want to cancel nation selection type B<clear>.

=head1 TURN

When you have finished with stock orders and control orders just type B<turn>. This way a new turn will be elaborated, your orders executed (if possible) and all the values of the stocks will change, with profit or loss for your wallet.

=head1 SAVE

Typing B<save FILENAME> you can dump the present situation to a file. Launching the game with

    bop-perl load FILENAME

you can load it and start playing from the point you leaved.






    








