=pod

=head1 NAME

Jabber::pkt - Perl wrapper for Jabber pkt for management of XML nodes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   Jabber::pkt is a helper class - you do not directly invoke it.  


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Jabber::pkt is a wrapper for the jabberd session manager (sm) packet object.
It provides a framework to access characteristics of the packet such as the to and from addresses, the nad object, an dto construct new packets.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 error()

Generate an error pkt, based on an existing pkt.

 my $epkt = pkt->error($code, $message);

=head2 to()

get the packets 'to' address.

 my $to = $pkt->to();

=head2 from()

get a packets 'from' address.

 my $from = $pkt->from();

=head2 type()

get a packets 'type' eg. message, presence, or iq.

 my $type = $pkt->type();

=head2 nad()

get a reference to a packets nad object

 my $nad = $pkt->nad();

=head2 tofrom()

swap a packets to and from address, and return the object for convenience

 $pkt = $pkt->tofrom();

=head2 dup()

Duplicate the packet

 my $newpkt = $pkt->dup();

=head2 create()

Create a new packet in the context of the current session (session that
the current packet is attached to).

 my $newpkt = $pkt->create("<message|iq|presence>", $type, $to, $from);

Once the packet skeleton has been created - access the nad ($newpkt->nad)
and modify the XML fragment as necessary, before delivering the packet 
with $newpkt->router().

=head2 router()

Send a packet on it's way

 $pkt->router();


=head2 free()

Free a packet.

 $pkt->free();

=head2 id()

Copy the current packets ID to another packet.

 $pkt->id( $otherpkt );

=cut

