=head1 NAME

freeradius_database.conf - Configuration file for FreeRADIUS::Database.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

freeradius_database.conf is the primary configuration file for the FreeRADIUS::Database
module.

By default, it is installed into /usr/local/etc as freeradius_database.conf-dist.

You will (at this time) need to manually rename this file to freeradius_database.conf,
and set the configuration variables for your site.

=head1 HEADINGS

The configuration file categories are used to ease human classification,
and by the system internally.

=head2 [ Version ]

Contains the system version number. Do not change it.


=head2 [ Global ]

Configuration settings that are used globally by the system.

=head3 timezone

This setting MUST comply with an entry that is supplied by a call to
DateTime::TimeZone->all_names().

Default: America/New_York

=head3 ras_classification

You can aggregate NAS devices into classes based on their IP address
or name by enabling this setting. Enabling this will rename all of your
NASIPAddress column entries so long as the IP of the NAS is listed
after a NAS name classification in the config file.

See the [ RAS ] section on classification/aggregating details.

Valid values: 0, 1.

Default: off.

=head3 delete_after_archive

Toggle whether you want to delete the data from the `radacct` table after
having it archived.

Valid values: 0, 1.

Default: off.

=head3 months_after_archive

How many months you want to go back before performing the month
archive. delete_after_archive is affected by this setting.

Example: if this setting is set to 3, then the system will archive the
month prior to three months ago. If delete_after_archive is true,
the archived month will be deleted from the main `radacct` table.

A setting of 0 indicates that you want to archive last months data.

Valid values: 0, 1-36

Default: 3.

=head3 config_dir

Set by the installer. This can be changed after the configuration
file is moved to the new file system location.

Default: set by installer. If installer defaults were accepted,
/usr/local/etc

=head3 script_dir

Set by the installer. This can be changed after the scripts are moved
to the new file system location, and after any automation (ie. cron)
changes are made.

Default: set by installer. If installer defaults were accepted,
/usr/local/sbin

=head3 in_test_mode

Used exclusively for `make test`. This sets the system to use a test-only
configuration file, and forces the system to use a test-only database which
contains a pre-defined dataset.

THIS IS ON BY DEFAULT. You will need to disable it.

Valid values: 0, 1.

Default: ON 



=head2 [ RAS ]

This section is where you define your classes for your NAS/RAS equipment. 

RAS classification is used within the accounting aggregation functions.
By 'classifying' your RAS equipment, you can group numerous RAS gear that
perform similar functions into a searchable item by name.

For instance, if you have 10 ADSL RASs, all on different IP addresses,
using this classification system, you can aggregate your user sessions
into one 'class'.

If aggregating daily totals for user 'steveb', who logged in numerous times
across four RASs within the day because of modem resets, his daily
totals from all four RASs would be summed together and collectively
aggregated into a single entry under the 'ADSL' `class`.

If the [ Global ] configuration varable ras_classification is set to false,
this section will be ignored.

A class is defined by assigning a name, followed by a comma-separated list
of IP addresses/prefixes without their trailing prefix length, or a comma
separated list of NAS names.

Currently, the classification is done via a regex-like check, and needs
significant improvement to be able to use proper x.x.x.x/xx style prefixes.

For example:


	# class any IP that begins with 10.0.0, or 172.16 as adsl:

	adsl = 10.0.0, 172.16

	# class any IP that matches 10.1.1.111 exactly, or begins with 
	# 10.1.5 as dialup

	dialup = 10.1.1.111, 10.1.5

	# class any IP that is within 10.55.55.5x range as hotspot

	hotspot = 10.55.55.5

	# class an IPv6 box as 'special' ;)

	special = 2001:0db8:dead:beef, 2001:0db8:1:1::b5

	# you can also class based on name, if your server logs its
	# NAS name instead of IP

	named_class = ras1.example.com, ras2.example.com, ras3.example.com

You can use any names you wish. The defaults are there for illustrative
purposes only.

=head2 [ Database ]

=head3 enable_replication

Informs the system that you have a MySQL cluster setup, and allows writing
to the master server, while load-balancing reads across the slaves.

For this directive to have any effect, you must have at least one slave_servers,
and a slave must be configured.

Do not enable this unless you have a proper MySQL replication cluster configured.
The system will cease to function if these settings are incorrect.

Note that 'slave_1_source' etc are displayed in the default configuration file
for example purposes. Additional slaves are configured the same way, but with
the integer incremented.

Valid values: 0, 1.

Default: off.

=head3 master_locked

Informs the system that the master database server in the cluster is offline for
maintenance. During this time, all writes will be blocked. 

Valid values: 0, 1.

Default: off.

=head3 slave_servers

The number of read-only slave servers you have in your cluster.

Valid values: any integer.

Default: 0.

=head3 maintenance_source

The DBI connect string of the database that will be used to accept writes
while the master cluster server is offline for maintenance.

Valid value: any DBI connect source string.

THIS FEATURE IS NOT YET FUNCTIONAL.

=head3 master_source

MySQL DBI source string.

=head3 master_user

Username of the user who has proper privileges on the master_source.

=head3 master_pass

Password of 'master_user'.

=head3 slave_1_source

See master_source.

=head3 slave_1_user

User for slave_1_source.

=head3 slave_1_pass

...

=head3 test_mode_source

Same as master_source, but used exclusively when a developer is running
tests after a code update.

=head3 test_mode_user

User for the test database.

=head3 test_mode_user

Password for the test database user.
