=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

MojoX::Session::Store::Redis - RedisDB Store for MojoX::Session

=cut

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	my $session = MojoX::Session->new(
		tx        => $tx,
		store     => MojoX::Session::Store::Redis->new({
			server	=> '127.0.0.1:6379',
			redis_prefix	=> 'mojo-session',
			redis_dbid	=> 0,
		}),
		transport => MojoX::Session::Transport::Cookie->new,
	);

	# see doc for MojoX::Session
	# see doc for Redis

And later when you need to use it in Mojolicious Controller

	my $session = $self->stash('mojox-session');
	$session->load;
	$session->create unless $session->sid;
	
	#set
	$session->data(
		id => 5,
		name => 'hoge',
	);
	
	#get
	my $name = $session->data('name');


=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<MojoX::Session::Store::Redis> is a store for L<MojoX::Session> that stores a
session in a L<Redis> database.


=head1 ATTRIBUTES

L<MojoX::Session::Store::Redis> implements the following attributes.

=head2 C<redis>

Get and set Redis object. See doc for L<Redis> param.

	$store->redis( Redis->new($param) );
	my $redis = $store->redis;

=head2 C<redis_prefix>

Get and set the Key prefix of the stored session in Redis.
Default is 'mojo-session'.

	$store->redis_prefix('mojo-session');
	my $prefix = $store->redis_prefix;

=head2 C<redis_dbid>

Get and set the DB ID Number to use in Redis DB.
Default is 0.

	$store->redis_dbid(0);
	my $dbid = $store->redis_dbid;

=head2 C<auto_purge>

Enable/disable auto purge.
When enable, session object/data stored in RedisDB will be automatically purged after TTL.
This is done by setting expire time for objects just right after creating them.
Changing this can only affect on objects created/updated after the change.
Default is 1 (enable).

	$store->auto_purge(1);
	my $is_auto_purge_enabled = $store->auto_purge;

=head1 METHODS

L<MojoX::Session::Store::Redis> inherits all methods from
L<MojoX::Session::Store>, and few more.

=head2 C<new>

C<new> uses the redis_prefix and redis_dbid parameters for the Key name prefix 
and the DB ID Number respectively. All other parameters are passed to C<Redis->new()>.

=head2 C<create>

Insert session to Redis.

=head2 C<update>

Update session in Redis.

=head2 C<load>

Load session from Redis.

=head2 C<delete>

Delete session from Redis.


=head1 AUTHOR

BlueT - Matthew Lien - 練喆明, C<< <BlueT at BlueT.org> >>


=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-mojox-session-store-redis at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=MojoX-Session-Store-Redis>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.


=head1 CREDITS

Tatsuya Fukata, L<https://github.com/fukata>

=head1 CONTRIBUTE

Main:

	bzr repository etc at L<https://launchpad.net/p5-mojox-session-store-redis>.

A copy of the codes:

	git repository etc at L<https://github.com/BlueT/p5-MojoX-Session-Store-Redis>.


=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

	perldoc MojoX::Session::Store::Redis


You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=MojoX-Session-Store-Redis>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/MojoX-Session-Store-Redis>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/MojoX-Session-Store-Redis>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/MojoX-Session-Store-Redis/>

=back


=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS


=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2011 BlueT - Matthew Lien - 練喆明.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.



=cut
