=pod

Such a *big* project cannot come without docs, since it cannot be explained 
within a paragraph.

First of all, I need to make these common sense in black-and-white,
for avoiding the misunderstanding.

=head1 What is in a Type?

=head2 What is a slot and what is a child?

A slot here means a primitive type of data, such as integer, text string, etc, 
that which can be stored in a column directly.
You can think of it as your own fresh. 
For example, the type of Person has slots such as first_name and last_name.
The alias is also the slot of Person, since it is just a list of text.
However, alias is in another kind of concept described later.

While a child is different in the sense that it is of other Types, 
such as Email means to Person.

=head2 scalar or list

Whatever it is slot or a child, an element of a Type should be a fixed attribute
that whether there is only one in a Type or many.

For instance, a Person, in most cases, has only one first_name and last_name, 
while he/she may have many aliases unofficially that you maned him. 
The first_name and last_name are scalar attributes, 
and the aliases is a list attribute.

=head2 plural

Noted that you should use the plural form of the attribute at appropriate places.
But first of all, you need to specify and use the plural form correctly. 
This system is pretending to be simple, that it just know to append a 's' at 
the tail of a noun simply. While it is your job to teach it to map, say, 
'alias' to 'alias' and 'fish' to 'fish'. No worries it is simple.

=head2 summary

Any combination of attribute type and attribute scalar is considered as 
reasonable and cared for by this system.

=head1 Table relationship

If you generalize the relationship between database tables, there are 3 kinds

=over 4

=item * No relationship

The two tables are strangers to each other.

=item * Social relationship

Friends are usually OK with each other and never bother others' business.

The joint table is intent to bridge the friends. The each ids of the parties
are the columns of the joint table, natually.

=item * Family relationship

Mainly, parent-children relationship is usually seen in the table schema, 
which I mean 'foreign key' issue.

=back


=cut

