# Copyright 2007-2008 by Philip Gwyn.  All rights reserved;

=head1 NAME

POE::XUL::POE - A POE::XUL application that doesn't use POE::XUL::Application

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use POE;
    use POE::Component::XUL;

    POE::Component::XUL->spawn( { apps => {   
                                        Test => 'My::App',
                                        # ....
                                } } );
    $poe_kernel->run();

    ##########
    package My::App;
    use POE::XUL::Node;

    sub spawn
    {
        my( $package, $event ) = @_;
        my $self = bless { SID=>$event->SID }, $package;
        POE::Session->create(
            object_states => [ $self => 
                [ qw( _start boot Click shutdown other_state ) ] ],
        );
    }

    #####
    sub _start {
        my( $self, $kernel ) = @_[ OBJECT, KERNEL ];
        $kernel->alias_set( $self->{SID} );
    }


    #####
    sub boot {
        my( $self, $kernel, $event, $app ) = @_[ OBJECT, KERNEL, ARG0, ARG1 ];
        $self->{D} = Description( "do the following" );
        $self->{W} = Window( HBox( $self->{D}, 
                                   Button( label => "click me", 
                                           Click => 'Click' ) ) );
        $event->finish;
    }

    #####
    sub Click {
        my( $self, $kernel, $event ) = @_[ OBJECT, KERNEL, ARG0 ];
        $event->done( 0 );
        $kernel->yield( 'other_state', $event );
    }

    sub other_state {
        my( $self, $kernel, $event ) = @_[ OBJECT, KERNEL, ARG0 ];
        $event->wrap( sub {
                $self->{D}->textNode( 'You did it!' );
                $self->{W}->firstChild->appendChild( $self->{B2} );
            } );
        $event->finished;
    }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 The application

POE::XUL applications generaly have one L<POE::session> per application
instance.  This POE session is spawned when a boot request is recieved from
the client.  The session then must handle a 'boot' event, where-in it
creates a C<Window> element and its children.  The application session is
kept active, handling the user events it has defined, until the users stops
using it, that is a period of inactivity.  The session is then sent a
'timeout' event followed by a 'shutdown' event.

=head2 spawn

    sub spawn {
        my ( $package, $event ) = @_;
        # must create a session
        POE::Session->create( 
                inline_states => { _start => \&_start }
                args => [ $event->SID ]
            );
    }

    # That session must have the SID as an alias
    sub _start {
        my( $kernel, $SID ) = @_;
    }

It B<must> set the session's alias
to the application's SID, available via C<$event-E<gt>SID>.  
All furthur communication with the application instance happens by 
posting POE events to the SID.



=head2 POE::XUL::Event and POE::XUL::ChangeManager

Only changes that are wrapped in an Event will be seen by the ChangeManager
and be mirrored in the client. L<POE::XUL::Event> will wrap the initial
event and call it with L<POE::Kernel/call>.  If you wish to post further POE
events, you must set the Event's done to 0, and wrap any node changes with
L<POE::XUL::Event/wrap>.  You must call L<POE::XUL::Event/finished> to
complete the request.

L<POE::XUL::Event/wrap> also provides error handling;  if your code dies,
the error message will be displayed in the browser.

=head1 AUTHOR

Philip Gwyn E<lt>gwyn-at-cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2007-2008 by Philip Gwyn.  All rights reserved;

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.


=head1 SEE ALSO

perl(1), L<POE::XUL::Node>, L<POE::XUL::Event>, L<POE::XUL::Controler>,
L<POE::XUL::Application>,
L<http://www.prototypejs.org/>.

=cut
