=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

PDK::Utils::Mail - Module for sending emails

=head1 VERSION

Version 1.0

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use PDK::Utils::Mail;

    my $mailer = PDK::Utils::Mail->new(
        smtp     => 'smtp.example.com',
        from     => 'your_email@example.com',
        username => 'your_username',
        password => 'your_password',
    );

    $mailer->sendmail(
        to      => 'recipient@example.com',
        subject => 'Email Subject',
        msg     => 'This is the email content',
        cc      => 'cc@example.com',
    );

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 smtp

Type: Str

Description: SMTP server address (required).

=head2 username

Type: Str

Description: SMTP authentication username.

=head2 password

Type: Str

Description: SMTP authentication password.

=head2 from

Type: Str

Description: Sender's email address (required).

=head2 charset

Type: Str

Description: Character set, defaults to constructed by the _buildCharset method.

=head2 displayFormat

Type: Str

Description: Email display format, defaults to HTML.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 _buildCharset

Constructs the character set based on the LANG environment variable.

=head2 sendmail(%param)

Sends an email. Parameters can be a hash or a hash reference, and must include the recipient address (to).

Parameters:
- to: Recipient address (required).
- subject: Email subject.
- msg: Email content.
- cc: CC address.

=head1 AUTHOR

WENWU YAN <968828@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2024 WENWU YAN. All rights reserved.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
