=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Dancer2::Logger::Syslog - Dancer2 logger engine for Sys::Syslog

=head1 VERSION

version 0.5

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module implements a logger engine that sends log messages to syslog,
through the Sys::Syslog module.

B<Note:> You might want to use L<Dancer2::Logger::LogReport> instead, which
contains a syslog dispatcher, but is much more powerful than this module.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 log($level, $message)

Writes the log message to the file.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

The setting B<logger> should be set to C<Syslog> in order to use this logging
engine in a Dancer2 application.

The attributes in the following example configuration are supported:

  logger: "Syslog"

  engines:
    logger:
      Syslog:
        facility: "LOCAL0"
        ident: "my_app"
        logopt: "pid"
        host: "10.0.0.1"
        port: "10000"
        type: "tcp"

The allowed options are:

=over 4

=item facility 

Which syslog facility to use, defaults to 'USER'

=item ident 

String prepended to every log line, defaults to the configured I<appname> or,
if not defined, to the executable's basename.

=item logopt

Log options passed to C<openlog()> as per Sys::Syslog's docs. Defaults to
'pid'. 

=item host

host option passed if set to C<setlogsock()> as per Sys:Syslog's docs

=item port

port option passed if host is set to C<setlogsock()> as per Sys:Syslog's docs
defaults to 53

=item type

type option passed if host is set to C<setlogsock()> as per Sys:Syslog's docs
defaults to udp


=back

=head1 METHODS

=head1 DEPENDENCY

This module depends on L<Sys::Syslog>.
To use network logging it requires a minimum of version 0.33.
Otherwise the network options are ignored.

=head1 SEE ALSO

See L<Dancer2> for details about logging in route handlers.

See L<Dancer2::Logger::LogReport> for a much more powerful logger, which also
contains a syslog provider.

=head1 AUTHORS

=over 4

=item *

Andy Beverley <andy@andybev.com>

=item *

Yanick Champoux <yanick@cpan.org>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2015 by Andy Beverley, Yanick Champoux,
Alexis Sukrieh

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.


=cut

