=head1 NAME

Graphics::HotMap -- generate thermographic images.


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Generate thermographic images from a few know points. Others values are
interpolated. Graphics::HotMap use PDL to work on matrix. PDL can
compute very very large matrix in a few seconds.

See <http://kumy.org/HotMap/HotMap.png>


=head1 INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install

Alternatively, to install with Module::Build, you can use the
following commands:

    perl Build.PL
    ./Build
    ./Build test
    ./Build install


=head1 SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Graphics::HotMap

You can also look for information at:

* Search CPAN
    http://search.cpan.org/dist/Graphics-HotMap/



=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2011 Mathieu Alorent 

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify 
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by 
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or 
(at your option) any later version. 

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, 
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of 
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the 
GNU General Public License for more details. 

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License 
along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
