=head1 NAME

App::hopen::Conventions - conventions for using hopen(1) as a build system

=head1 SYNOPSIS

L<Data::Hopen> is a flexible dataflow processor and task runner.  However, its
main use case is as a build system (e.g., a Makefile generator).  To keep
the core of hopen as flexible as possible, L<App::hopen> (build system)
requires its components to follow the conventions described in this document.

These conventions are generally implemented/enforced in L<App::hopen>
and L<App::hopen::AppUtil>.

Note: everything in this document is subject to change since C<App::hopen>
is currently under active development.

=head1 COMPONENTS USED BY THE BUILD SYSTEM

=over

=item Project directory

Where the main hopen file file of the project is (see L</"HOPEN FILES">).

=item Destination directory

Where the output will go.  hopen(1) does not support in-source builds.
The default directory is C<< <project dir>/built >>.

=item Generator

A subclass of L<App::hopen::Gen> that creates the build-system files.
The generator's job is to arrange for coordinating work that needs to be done.

=item Toolset

A collection of commands (L<App::hopen::G::Cmd> subclasses) that know
how to process specific types of files.  Toolsets are responsible for
defining the work that the generator will coordinate.

Toolsets are technically independent of which generator is in use.  However, a
command-line toolset probably won't work with an XML-based generator!  If no
toolset is specified, the generator picks the default.

=item An architecture (optional)

An arbitrary string understood by the toolset or generator.  Used, e.g.,
to select x86 vs. x64.

=item "Blueprint" files

These are the outputs of hopen.  They are the inputs to make(1), ninja(1), or
some other software-build tool.

=back

=head1 HOPEN FILES

hopen configures a project by running one or more files matching C<.hopen.pl>
or C<*.hopen.pl>.  As the extension suggests, these are Perl source files.

The filename C<MY.hopen.pl> is reserved.  It is created by hopen in each
destination directory to record the state of the build in that directory.

Hopen itself does not (knowingly) use any source filters, text replacement,
pluggable keywords, or other fancy features.  Everything in a hopen file is
straight Perl.

=head2 Which hopen files are used

On any hopen(1) run, up to three hopen files are automatically located and
executed.  (Any of those can run any number of additional hopen files.) None of
the three files has to exist.  The three files are, in order of execution:

=over

=item * Build-state file

The C<MY.hopen.pl> in the destination directory.  This sets the current
phase (see L</PHASES>) and loads the data output by the last hopen(1) run.

After C<MY.hopen.pl> runs, the generator and toolset are loaded.

=item * Project file

The last-sorting C<.hopen.pl> or C<*.hopen.pl> file in the project directory.
You can name your project file whatever you want --- only the extension
has to match.  That way you can call your build file C<.hopen.pl> if
you want it hidden, or C<z.hopen.pl> if you want it to sort below all your
other files.  Sort order is Perl's default, which is by byte value.

=item * Context file

Sometimes you need to tweak the build of someone else's project to make it fit
your environment.  I run into this all the time on Cygwin.  Therefore, hopen
will look for a hopen file in the project's I<parent directory>.  That file is
referred to as a "context file".  Since the context file runs after the project
file, the context file can change the way the project will be built.

The filename of the context file is C<directory_name.hopen.pl> for a project
in C<directory_name>.  It doesn't matter what the project calls itself; the
context file is found solely based on the directory name.

=back

Note: if the project file or the context file has a newer modification time
than the build-state file, the build-state file will not be loaded.

After those files are executed, any code provided by a C<-e> command-line
option is executed as if it were its own hopen file on disk, and any
hopen file referenced by a C<-f> option is executed.  C<-e> and C<-f> options
are processed in the order given on the command line.

The hopen files are run in order to build up a hashref that will be the
input to the build graph.  The hopen files, while they run, also
populate the build graph.

=head2 Execution environment of a hopen file

Each hopen file is the body of a subroutine that receives a hashref from the
last-run hopen file and may return a hashref (C<{...}>) or C<undef>.  Each
hopen file's output hashref, if any, is appended to the input hashref (using
L<Hash::Merge> with retainment precedent).  Therefore, to leave the input
unchanged, return C<{}>, not C<$_[0]>.

Any return value that is not a hashref will be ignored.

Elements of the hashref starting with C<__R> are reserved.  Please don't read
or write those elements if you want hopen to work! :)  Similarly, all variables
starting with C<__R> are reserved.

The hopen file is executed in scalar context.

Each hopen file runs in an environment with everything from the following
packages loaded (via L<App::hopen::HopenFileKit>):

=over

=item * L<App::hopen::BuildSystemGlobals>

=item * L<App::hopen::Phases>

With both C<:all> and C<:hopenfile> specified, so you get, e.g.,
L<App::hopen::Phases/on>.

=item * L<App::hopen::Util::BasedPath>

=item * L<Data::Hopen>

=item * L<Data::Hopen::Base>

This also gives you L<Carp>, L<Data::Dumper>, L<strict>, and L<warnings>,
and requires Perl 5.14+.

=item * L<Path::Class>

=back

=head2 Variables usable in hopen files

These are defined in L<App::hopen::BuildSystemGlobals>.

=over

=item $Generator

The current L<App::hopen::Gen> instance.

=item $Toolset

The name of the current C<< App::hopen::T::<stem> >> package root.

=item $Build

The L<Data::Hopen::G::DAG> instance representing the current build.
Goals in C<$Build> will become, e.g., top-level targets of a
generated C<Makefile>.

=item $Phase

The current phase (B<read-only>).  Only C<MY.hopen.pl> is allowed to change
the phase (and not even that if C<--phase> is specified on the hopen
command line).

=back

=head1 PHASES

hopen is a multi-phase build system.  Unlike cmake(1), hopen runs
deterministically in multiple steps.  That way you don't have to run the build
generator over and over again until it converges.  (Yes, I have had this
problem with cmake.)  Each time you run hopen(1), it will run the next phase
(saved in C<MY.hopen.pl>).  Currently, the phases are as follows, in order.

=head2 Check

During this phase, the generator, toolset, or hopen file can collect
information about the environment.

=head2 Gen

During this phase, blueprint files and any supporting files
(e.g., a C<config.h>) are written to the destination directory.

=head2 After all the phases are run

Once all of hopen's phases have been run, you can run make(1), ninja(1), or
whatever build system corresponds with the generator you have selected.
You can do this by running C<hopen --build>, if you wish.

=head1 INTERNALS

=head2 Overall data flow

=over

=item 1.

The hopen files run, and generate a command graph.  The command graph includes
nodes that implement L<App::hopen::G::Cmd>.  The idea is that the hopen
files specify the I<commands> you would run to build your software by hand.

Each command node, when run, outputs a C<made> arrayref of
L<App::hopen::Asset> instances.

=item 2.

The command graph is run, with a generator made available to it.  Command nodes
provide asset nodes to the generator and to later command nodes.  The asset
nodes implement L<App::hopen::G::AssetNode>.  The specific subclass they
implement is determined by the generator.

=item 3.

The generator runs the asset graph to output the blueprint files.

=back

=head1 SCRAPS

Ignore these --- I may come back to them in the future.

=head2 Tool

App::hopen::Tool - Base class for packages that know how to process files

A tool knows how to generate a command or other text that will cause
a build system to perform a particular action on a file belonging to a
particular language.

A tool is an L<App::hopen::G::Cmd>, so may interact with the current generator
(L<App::hopen::BuildSystemGlobals/$Generator>).  Moreover, the generator will
get a chance to visit the op after it is processed.

Maybe TODO:

    - Each Generator must specify a list of Content-Types (media types)
        it can consume.  Each Tool must specify a specific content-type
        it produces.  Mismatches are an error unless overriden on the
        hopen command line.

=head2 Toolchain

TODO?

    - permit loading any number of tools/toolchains
    - The Generator specifies a default list of tools rather than a
        single default toolchain.
    - add G::ToolOp to invoke tools.  A ToolOp will take a language
        and an opcode and invoke a corresponding Tool.  E.g., a GNU C
        Tool will generate command-line options for gcc-style command lines.
    - Only one Tool may be loaded for each (language, opcode) pair.
        Otherwise the build would be ambiguous.
    - In Conventions, define the formats for languages and opcodes.

Maybe TODO:

    - Each Generator must specify a list of Content-Types (media types)
        it can consume.  Each Tool must specify a specific content-type
        it produces.  Mismatches are an error unless overriden on the
        hopen command line.

=head2 Phases

App::hopen::Phase - Namespace for hopen phases.

The specific phases in hopen live under C<App::hopen::Phase>.  The
current phases are:

=over

=item L<App::hopen::Phase::Probe>

Read a foundations file and one or more context files; output a capability
file and an options file.  The user may edit the options file.

=item L<App::hopen::Phase::Gen>

Read the capability, option, and context files, plus a recipes file identifying
the build graph.  Output one or more blueprint files.

=item B<Build>

Not part of hopen --- run the blueprint files through make(1), ninja(1), or
another build tool.

If the dependencies change as the result of a build, the Gen phase is re-run.
However, the Probe phase does not have to be re-run.

=back

=head3 PHILOSOPHY

Hopen is a single-pass build system.  You do not have to re-run to converge
on a final set of blueprint files.

Hopen is context-aware.  You can change the build of a repo without having
to touch files in that repo.

=cut
