=pod

=head1 NAME

Astroboy::API - organize mp3s on disk by id3 tags

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use Astroboy;

   my $a = Astroboy->new;
   $a->abs_music('/home/myself/music');

   my $album = $a->dir('/home/myself/music_incoming/album1');

   $album->artist;
   $album->files;


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Astroboy is meant to be used via the command line.
See L<astroboy>.

=head1 METHODS


=head2 new()



=head2 dir()

Argument is path to directory.
Returns Astroboy::AlbumDir object.

=head2 file()

Argument is path to file.
Returns Astroboy::AlbumFile object.






=head2 errstr()





=head1 Astroboy::Base

=head2 artists()

Simply returns names of subdirs in ABS_MUSIC.

=head2 artists_count()

Returns number.

=head2 artist_guess()

Argument is a string, a filename, or a path.
Tries to guess what artist it is.
Uses artists currently listed in ABS MUSIC.



=head2 debug()

=head2 abs_music()

Perl setget method. Argument is abs path to music. Default is $ENV{HOME}/music.
Same as $Astroboy::ABS_MUSIC, but as method.





=head1 $Astroboy::DEBUG

=head1 $Astroboy::ABS_MUSIC









=head1 CAVEATS

Do not use the api, use the cli.
In development. Contact L<AUTHOR> for suggestions, concerns, etc.

=head1 AUTHOR

Leo Charre leocharre at cpan dot org

=head1 LICENSE

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself, i.e., under the terms of the "Artistic License" or the "GNU General Public License".

=head1 DISCLAIMER

This package is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

See the "GNU General Public License" for more details.

=cut

