=head1 NAME

Plack::Middleware::LogHarakiri - log when a process is killed

=head1 VERSION

0.0301

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Plack::Builder;

  builder {

    enable "LogHarakiri";
    enable "SizeLimit",  ...;

    $app;
  };

=head1 INSTALLATION

See
L<How to install CPAN modules|http://www.cpan.org/modules/INSTALL.html>.

=head2 Required Modules

This distribution requires Perl v5.8.8.

This distribution requires the following modules:

=over 4

=item * L<Capture::Tiny>

=item * L<HTTP::Request::Common>

=item * L<parent>

=item * L<Plack>

=item * L<Plack::Middleware>

=item * L<Process::SizeLimit::Core>

=back

=head1 RECENT CHANGES

=head2 Docmentation

=over 4

=item * 

Added note about Plack::Middleware::SizeLimit 0.06's log_when_limits_exceeded option.

=back

See the F<Changes> file for a longer revision history.


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This middleware was written a companion to L<Plack::Middleware::SizeLimit>
that emits a warning when a process is killed.

When it detects that the current process is killed, it will emit a
warning with diagnostic information of the form:

  pid %d committed harakiri (size: %d, shared: %d, unshared: %d) at %s

However, L<Plack::Middleware::SizeLimit> version 0.06 supports a
C<log_when_limits_exceeded> option, which makes this middleware unnecessary
for that purpose.

Note that this middleware must be enabled before plugins that set the
"harakiri" flag.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<PSGI::Extensions>

=head1 AUTHOR

Robert Rothenberg C<< rrwo@thermeon.com >>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015, Thermeon Worldwide, PLC.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

