package Lingua::EN::Opinion::Emotion;


1;

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Lingua::EN::Opinion::Emotion

=head1 VERSION

version 0.1702

=head1 DESCRIPTION

NRC Word-Emotion Association Lexicon
(NRC Emotion Lexicon)
Version 0.92
10 July 2011
Copyright (C) 2011 National Research Council Canada (NRC)
Contact: Saif Mohammad (saif.mohammad@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca)

1. This copy of the NRC Emotion Lexicon is to be used for research
purposes only.  Please contact NRC if interested in a commercial
license.

2. If you use this lexicon in your research, then please cite
at least one of the papers listed in the PUBLICATIONS section of the
README (preferably the journal paper in Computational Intelligence).

.......................................................................

NRC EMOTION LEXICON
-------------------
The NRC emotion lexicon is a list of words and their associations with
eight emotions (anger, fear, anticipation, trust, surprise, sadness,
joy, and disgust) and two sentiments (negative and positive). The
annotations were manually done through Amazon's Mechanical Turk. Refer
to publications below for more details.

.......................................................................

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 wordlist

HashRef entries of the form:

  word => { anger=>0, anticipation=>0, disgust=>0, fear=>0, joy=>0, negative=>0, positive=>0, sadness=>0, surprise=>0, trust=>0 },

=head1 AUTHOR

Gene Boggs <gene@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2022 by Gene Boggs.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
