=head1 NAME

Lego::Ldraw - Perl extension for parsing, modifying, translating and
displaying Ldraw files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Lego::Ldraw;

  my $l = Ldraw->new_from_file($ARGV[0]);
  # do things...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Ldraw is a CAD drawing program for Lego models. It stores data in text
files with a suffix of ldr or dat.

This extension provides a basis for quickly  parsing, modifying, translating and
displaying them.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Model methods

=head3 new

  $ldraw_model = Lego::Ldraw->new;

Creates a new Lego::Ldraw object

=head3 new_from_file

  $ldraw_model = Lego::Ldraw->new_from_file("car.ldr");

Creates a new Lego::Ldraw object from a file

=head3 copy

 $ldraw_model = Lego::Ldraw->new_from_file("car.ldr");
 $clone = $ldraw_model->copy

Creates a cloned object

=head3 add

  $ldraw_line = Lego::Ldraw::Line->new
  $ldraw_model->add($ldraw_line)

=head3 splice

  $ldraw_model->splice($ldraw_line, $offset, $length)
  $ldraw_model->splice($another_ldraw_model, $offset, $length)

Inserts a line or a model at an offset, substituting lines if $length is specified.  

=head3 lines

  @lines = $ldraw_model->lines

Returns the lines of a model file as Lego::Ldraw::Line objects

=head3 stringify

  $ldraw = $ldraw_model->stringify

Returns the object as a string. The string is a valid Ldraw file.

=head3 length

  $len = $ldraw_model->length

Returns the number of lines in the model, excluding empty ones.

=head3 subparts

  @subparts = $ldraw_model->subparts

Returns the parts which compose a model, excluding primitives (i.e:
only lines of types 2, 3, 4, and 5).

=head3 colors

  @colors = $ldraw_model->colors

Returns the colors of parts in the model. Does not recurse into the subparts.

=head3 file
  
  $file = $ldraw_model->file

Returns the path of the file that was read into the model. Defaults to
empty for models that were created from scratch.

=head3 name

  $name = $ldraw_model->name

Returns the basename of the file that was read into the model. Defaults to
empty for models that were created from scratch.

=head3 dir

  $dir = $ldraw_model->dir

Returns the directory containing  the file that was read into the model. Defaults to
empty for models that were created from scratch.

=head3 tree

  $tree = $ldraw_model->tree

Returns a HoH of parts and colors contained in the model.

=head3 parts

 @parts = $ldraw_model->parts

Returns a list of the parts used in the model.

=head3 description

 $description = $ldraw_model->description

Returns the description of the model. This is the first comment line in the file.

=head3 partsdirs

See same method in Line methods

=head3 basedir

See same method in Line methods

=head3 build_tree

  $ldraw_model->build_tree( \&callback, \&test );

Traverses the model tree, exploding every part into subparts on the
way if &test($part) returns true, and executing &callback on every
part traversed.

Used mostly in translators, to explode the model into primitives and
translate them into some other format: see the Lego::Ldraw::POV source
for an example.

=head2 Line methods

=head3 new

  $ldraw_line = Lego::Ldraw::Line->new;

Creates a new Lego::Ldraw::Line object.

=head3 new_from_string

  $ldraw_line = Lego::Ldraw::Line->new_from_string('1 1 200 4 170 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 3004.dat');

Creates a new Lego::Ldraw::Line object from a string.

=head3 new_from_part_name

  $ldraw_line = Lego::Ldraw::Line->new_from_part_name('3004.dat');

Creates a new Lego::Ldraw::Line object from a part name. The part is centered on the origin.

=head3 field access functions

  $x = $ldraw_line->x;
  $color = $ldraw_line->color;
  $part = $ldraw_line->part;

Ldraw line field values can be accessed with the relevant methods. See
the Ldraw specification page at
L<http://www.ldraw.org/modules.php?op=modload&name=News&file=article&sid=45>

=head3 name

=head3 copy

  $copy = $line->copy;

Clones the Line object

=head3 fields

  @fields = $line->fields;

Returns the Line object fields

=head3 description

Returns the part's description, as listed in the Parts.lst generated at installation.

=head3 values

  @vals = $line->values(qw/x y z/);

Returns the values of the specified fields, or of all fields if none is specified.

=head3 coords

  @xyz = $line->coords

Returns the values of all coordinate points on the line (x, y, z if
its type is 1, more x1, y1, z1 etc. in other cases).

=head3 points

  $points = $line->points;

Returns the number of points that define the line: 1 for a part (type 1), 2 for a line, etc..

=head3 transform_matrix

  @matrix = $line->transform_matrix

Returns the transform matrix (i.e.: fields x, y, z and a to i) of a
part (type 1). Returns undef in all other cases.

=head3 point

  ($x2, $y2, $z2) = $line->point(2)

Returns the coordinates of the specified point for the line, or the
coordinates of the part for a line of type 1.

=head3 format

  $string = $line->format

Returns a nicely formatted string of the line's fields. Coordinates
are rounded at 2 decimals.

=head3 eval

  $line->eval('%x += 2 if %color == 3');
  $line->eval('&normalize if %x > 12');

This function enables complex on-the-fly edits to a line. First all
strings beginning with % in the argument are translated into field
accessors. Then all strings beginning with & in the argument are
transformed into methods. Then the string is evaluated, thus editing
the line.

For example:

  $line->eval('%x += 2 if %color == 3');

translates into:

  $line->x += 2 if $line->color == 3;

and 

  $line->eval('&normalize if %x > 12');

translates into 

  $line->normalize if $line->x > 12;

=head3 normalize

  $line->normalize

Re-centers the line on the origin and deletes all rotations.

=head3 partfile

  $filename = $line->partfile;

Returns the full path to the file corresponding to the line's part.

=head3 explode

  $ldraw_model = $line->explode;

Returns a Lego::Ldraw object corresponding to the line's part. 

=head3 traslate

  $line->traslate($x, $y, $z);

Traslates the line by the amounts specified.

=head3 traslate

  $line->rotate($axis, $degrees);

Rotates the line around the axis (first argument) by the amount specified
in degrees (second argument).

=head3 transform

  $line->transform($another_line)

Traslates and rotates the line with the transformation matrix of the
Lego::Ldraw::Line object passed as an argument.

Tipically used in:

  $ldraw = $line->explode;
  for (@$ldraw) {
    $_->transform($line)	
  }

which provides a mechanism to reduce a model to its primitives.

=head3 stringify

=head3 config

=head3 basedir

=head3 partsdirs

=head3 primitives

=head1 DISPLAY AND TRANSLATION

=head2 Pov-ray translation

Rudimentary support for Ldraw to Pov-ray translation is provided:

  use Lego::Ldraw;
  use Lego::Ldraw::POV;

  $\ = "\n";

  my $l = Lego::Ldraw->new_from_file($ARGV[0]);

  print $l->POVdesc;

Features here are very much in flux and can be changed without notice.

=head2 OpenGL display

Rudimentary support for OpenGL display of Ldraw models is provided:

  use Lego::Ldraw;
  use Lego::Ldraw::Display;

  $, = " "; $\ = "\n";

  my $l = Lego::Ldraw->new_from_file($ARGV[0]);
  print $l->dir;

  $d = Lego::Ldraw::Display->new(300, 400, $l);
  $d->init;

=head3 Requirements

This part requires the OpenGL package that can be found at
L<http://www.bribes.org/perl/wopengl.html>. Install the ppm binary
provided by entering the following command  at the console:

  ppm install http://www.bribes.org/perl/ppm/OpenGL.ppd

Despite my efforts, Linux is not supported.

=head3 Callbacks

There is also limited callback support: import OpenGL constants, and
use the bindspec method to bind callbacks. For example:

  use OpenGL qw/ :all /;

  # code omitted very much like above

  $d->bindspec(GLUT_KEY_UP,   GLUT_ACTIVE_SHIFT, sub { shift->{lookat}->[1] -= 5; });
  $d->bindspec(GLUT_KEY_DOWN, GLUT_ACTIVE_SHIFT, sub { shift->{lookat}->[1] += 5; });

  # etc.

These features are likely to change to provide support for Tk
interaction.

=head3 Interaction with other event loops

  use Lego::Ldraw;
  use Lego::Ldraw::Display;
  use Tk;

  my $l = Lego::Ldraw->new_from_file($ARGV[0]);
  print $l->dir;

  $d = Lego::Ldraw::Display->new(300, 400, $l);

  $MW = MainWindow->new;

  # more Tk stuff here...
  $idle = sub { $MW->update };

  $d->init($idle);

You can pass a reference to a sub as the first argument to the init
method, and the sub will be executed during OpenGL's idle cycle. the
example above shows how to use Tk in conjunction with the OpenGL
display.

=head3 Camera and lookat positioning

  use Lego::Ldraw;
  use Lego::Ldraw::Display;
  use Tk;

  my $l = Lego::Ldraw->new_from_file($ARGV[0]);
  print $l->dir;

  $d = Lego::Ldraw::Display->new(300, 400, $l);

  $MW = MainWindow->new;

  # more Tk stuff here...
  $idle = sub { $MW->update };

  $d->init($idle);
  $d->move('camera', 's', 'z', +12);

You can move the camera and the point it's looking at (lookat) with the "move" method.

  $d->move($point, $movement_type, $axis, $distance)

C<$point> is either 'camera' or 'lookat'.

C<$movement_type> is either 'x' for axial (move along an axis) or 's' for
spherical, which moves on a sphere around the reference point. The
reference point is the camera if you move lookat and lookat if you
move the camera.

C<$axis> determines the axis along which you move and it can be 'x' 'y' or 'z'.


=head1 TO DO

=over

=item * Matrix correction for singular matrixes in POV

=item * Better header generation in POV

=item * Better color handling in Display and POV

=item * Perl macro comments in POV

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

Ldraw, the start of it all: L<http://www.ldraw.org/index.php>

Pov-ray: L<http://www.povray.org/>

L3P, a more mature Ldraw to pov-ray translator: L<http://www.hassings.dk/l3/l3p.html>

=head1 AUTHOR

Simone Cesano

=head1 THANKS

Thanks to Lars C. Hassing for letting me use his primitives in the Lego::Ldraw::POV module.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2005 by Simone Cesano

The primitives the Lego::Ldraw::POV module are Copyright (C) 1998-2001 Lars C. Hassing

=cut
