=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::WSDL11 - create SOAP messages defined by WSDL 1.1

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::WSDL11
   is a XML::Compile::Cache
   is a XML::Compile::Schema
   is a XML::Compile

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # preparation
 use XML::Compile::WSDL11;      # use WSDL version 1.1
 use XML::Compile::SOAP11;      # use SOAP version 1.1
 use XML::Compile::Transport::SOAPHTTP;

 # you want some trace?
 use Log::Report mode => 'DEBUG';   # or 'VERBOSE'

 # collect one or more wsdls and xsds in one object
 my $wsdl = XML::Compile::WSDL11->new($wsdlfile
   , server_type => 'BEA'
   );
 $wsdl->addWSDL(...more WSDL files...);
 $wsdl->importDefinitions(...more schemas...);

 # during initiation, for each used call
 my $call = $wsdl->compileClient('GetStockPrice', ...);

 # at "run-time", call as often as you want (fast)
 my $answer = $call->(%request);

 # capture useful trace information
 my ($answer, $trace) = $call->(%request);
 if($trace->errors)
 {   $trace->printError;
 }

 # no need to administer the operations by hand: alternative
 $wsdl->compileCalls;  # at initiation
 my $answer = $wsdl->call(GetStockPrice => %request);

 # investigate the %request structure (server input)
 print $wsdl->explain('GetStockPrice', PERL => 'INPUT', recurse => 1);

 # investigate the $answer structure (server output)
 print $wsdl->explain('GetStockPrice', PERL => 'OUTPUT');

 # when you like, get all operation definitions
 my @all_ops = $wsdl->operations;

 # Install XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon
 my $server  = XML::Compile::SOAP::HTTPDaemon->new;
 $server->operationsFromWSDL($wsdl);
 undef $wsdl;    # not needed any further
 
 # For debug info, start your script with:
 use Log::Report mode => 'DEBUG';

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module understands WSDL version 1.1.  An WSDL file defines a set of
messages to be send and received over (SOAP) connections. This involves
encoding of the message to be send into XML, sending the message to the
server, collect the answer, and finally decoding the XML to Perl.

As end-user, you do not have to worry about the complex details of the
messages and the way to exchange them: it's all simple Perl for you.
Also, faults are handled automatically.  The only complication you have
to worry about is to shape a nested HASH structure to the sending
message structure.  L<XML::Compile::Schema::template()|XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers"> may help you.

When the definitions are spread over multiple files you will need to
use L<addWSDL()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Extension"> (wsdl) or L<importDefinitions()|XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration"> (additional schema's)
explicitly. Usually, interreferences between those files are broken.
Often they reference over networks (you should never trust). So, on
purpose you B<must explicitly load> the files you need from local disk!
(of course, it is simple to find one-liners as work-arounds, but I will
not tell you how!  See L<XML::Compile::SOAP::FAQ|XML::Compile::SOAP::FAQ>)

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"METHODS">.
 
=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"Constructors">.
 
=over 4

=item XML::Compile::WSDL11-E<gt>B<new>( [$xml], %options )

The $xml is the WSDL file, which is anything accepted by
L<XML::Compile::dataToXML()|XML::Compile/"Compilers">.

 -Option            --Defined in          --Default
  allow_undeclared    XML::Compile::Cache   <false>
  any_element         XML::Compile::Cache   'ATTEMPT'
  block_namespace     XML::Compile::Schema  []
  hook                XML::Compile::Schema  undef
  hooks               XML::Compile::Schema  []
  ignore_unused_tags  XML::Compile::Schema  <false>
  key_rewrite         XML::Compile::Schema  []
  opts_readers        XML::Compile::Cache   []
  opts_rw             XML::Compile::Cache   []
  opts_writers        XML::Compile::Cache   []
  parser_options      XML::Compile          <many>
  prefixes            XML::Compile::Cache   <smart>
  schema_dirs         XML::Compile          undef
  server_type                               undef
  typemap             XML::Compile::Cache   {}
  xsi_type            XML::Compile::Cache   {}

=over 2

=item allow_undeclared => BOOLEAN

=item any_element => CODE|'TAKE_ALL'|'SKIP_ALL'|'ATTEMPT'|'SLOPPY'

=item block_namespace => NAMESPACE|TYPE|HASH|CODE|ARRAY

=item hook => HOOK|ARRAY

=item hooks => ARRAY

=item ignore_unused_tags => BOOLEAN|REGEXP

=item key_rewrite => HASH|CODE|ARRAY

=item opts_readers => HASH|ARRAY-of-PAIRS

=item opts_rw => HASH|ARRAY-of-PAIRS

=item opts_writers => HASH|ARRAY-of-PAIRS

=item parser_options => HASH|ARRAY

=item prefixes => HASH|ARRAY-of-PAIRS

=item schema_dirs => DIRECTORY|ARRAY-OF-DIRECTORIES

=item server_type => NAME

[3.01] When you specify the implementation of the server, we can work
around some of the known bugs and limitation.
Read L<XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP> section "Supported servers" for supported
servers.

=item typemap => HASH|ARRAY

=item xsi_type => HASH|ARRAY

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

Extends L<"Accessors" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addHook>($hook|LIST|undef)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addHooks>( $hook, [$hook, ...] )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addKeyRewrite>($predef|CODE|HASH, ...)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addSchemaDirs>(@directories|$filename)

=item XML::Compile::WSDL11-E<gt>B<addSchemaDirs>(@directories|$filename)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addSchemas>($xml, %options)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addTypemap>(PAIR)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addTypemaps>(PAIRS)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addXsiType>( [HASH|ARRAY|LIST] )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<allowUndeclared>( [BOOLEAN] )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<anyElement>('ATTEMPT'|'SLOPPY'|'SKIP_ALL'|'TAKE_ALL'|CODE)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<blockNamespace>($ns|$type|HASH|CODE|ARRAY)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<hooks>( [<'READER'|'WRITER'>] )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<typemap>( [HASH|ARRAY|PAIRS] )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<useSchema>( $schema, [$schema, ...] )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=back

=head2 Prefix management

Extends L<"Prefix management" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"Prefix management">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addNicePrefix>(BASE, NAMESPACE)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Prefix management">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addPrefixes>( [PAIRS|ARRAY|HASH] )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Prefix management">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<learnPrefixes>($node)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Prefix management">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<prefix>($prefix)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Prefix management">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<prefixFor>($uri)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Prefix management">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<prefixed>( $type|<$ns,$local> )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Prefix management">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<prefixes>( [$params] )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Prefix management">

=back

=head2 Compilers

Extends L<"Compilers" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"Compilers">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addCompileOptions>( ['READERS'|'WRITERS'|'RW'], %options )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Compilers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<call>($opname, $data)

[2.20] Call the $opname (operation name) with $data (HASH or LIST of parameters).
This only works when you have called L<compileCalls()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Compilers"> beforehand,
always during the initiation phase of the program.

example: 

   # at initiation time (compile once)
   $wsdl->compileCalls;

   # at runtime (run often)
   my $answer = $wsdl->call($operation, $request);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compile>( <'READER'|'WRITER'>, $type, %options )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compileAll>( [ <'READERS'|'WRITERS'|'RW'|'CALLS'>, [$ns] ] )

[2.20] With explicit C<CALLS> or without any parameter, it will call
L<compileCalls()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Compilers">. Otherwise, see L<XML::Compile::Cache::compileAll()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Compilers">.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compileCall>($operation|$opname, %options)

[2.37] The call to the $operation object (which extends
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation|XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation>) gets compiled and cached so it can
be used with L<call()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Compilers">.

[2.38] Alteratively to an $operation object, you may also specify an
operation by name.

 -Option--Default
  alias   undef

=over 2

=item alias => NAME

[3.03] When defined, the compiled operation will be stored with the
alias name in stead of the operation name.  This may make your code
more readible or solve naming conflicts.

=back

example: 

  my $op = $wsdl->operation(name => 'getInfo');
  $wsdl->compileCall($op);

  # as often as you need it
  my ($answer, $trace) = $wsdl->call('getInfo')->(%request);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compileCalls>(%options)

[2.20] Compile a handler for each of the available operations. The %options are
passed to each call of L<compileClient()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Extension">, but will be overruled by more
specific declared options.

Additionally, %options can contain C<service>, C<port>, and C<binding>
to limit the set of involved calls. See L<operations()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Introspection"> for details on
these options.

You may declare additional specific compilation options with the
L<declare()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Administration"> method.

 -Option    --Default
  long_names  false

=over 2

=item long_names => BOOLEAN

[3.03] Prepend the service name to the operation name to produce an alias
(see L<compileCall(alias)|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Compilers">) for the compiled call.  If the service name is
'X' and the operation name is 'Y', then the alias becomes 'X#Y'.

You will need this if you have multiple operations with the same name
in your WSDL (-collection).

=back

example: 

   my $trans = XML::Compile::Transport::SOAPHTTP
     ->new(timeout => 500, address => $wsdl->endPoint);
   $wsdl->compileCalls(transport => $trans);

   # alternatives for simple cases
   $wsdl->compileAll('CALLS');
   $wsdl->compileAll;
   
   my $answer = $wsdl->call($myop, $request);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compileType>( <'READER'|'WRITER'>, $type, %options )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<dataToXML>($node|REF-XML|XML-STRING|$filename|$fh|$known)

=item XML::Compile::WSDL11-E<gt>B<dataToXML>($node|REF-XML|XML-STRING|$filename|$fh|$known)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile/"Compilers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<initParser>(%options)

=item XML::Compile::WSDL11-E<gt>B<initParser>(%options)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile/"Compilers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<reader>($type|$name, %options)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Compilers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<template>( <'XML'|'PERL'|'TREE'>, $element, %options )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<writer>($type|$name)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Compilers">

=back

=head2 Extension

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addWSDL>($xmldata|\@xmldata, %options)

The $xmldata must be acceptable to L<XML::Compile::dataToXML()|XML::Compile/"Compilers"> and 
should represent the top-level of a (partial) WSDL document.
The specification can be spread over multiple files, each of
which must have a C<definition> root element.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compileClient>( [$name], %options )

Creates an L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation|XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation> temporary object using
L<operation()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Extension">, and then calls C<compileClient()> on that.  This
results in a code reference which will handle all client-server
SOAP exchange.

The %options available include all of the options for:

=over 4

=item *

L<operation()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Extension"> (i.e. C<service> and C<port>), and all of

=item *

L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation::compileClient()|XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation/"Handlers"> (there are many of
these, for instance C<transport_hook> and C<server>)

=back

You B<cannot> pass options for L<XML::Compile::Schema::compile()|XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers">, like
C<<sloppy_integers => 0>>, hooks or typemaps this way. Use L<new(opts_rw)|XML::Compile::Cache/"Constructors">
and friends to declare those.

When you use L<compileCall()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Compilers">, the compiled code references get cached
for you.  In that case, you can use L<call()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Compilers"> to use them.

example: 

  my $call = $wsdl->compileClient
    ( operation => 'HelloWorld'
    , port      => 'PrefillSoap' # only required when multiple ports
    );
  my ($answer, $trace) = $call->($request);

  # 'operation' keyword optional
  my $call = $wsdl->compileClient('HelloWorld');

=item $obj-E<gt>B<namesFor>($class)

Returns the list of names available for a certain definition $class in
the WSDL. See L<index()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Introspection"> for a way to determine the available $class
information.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<operation>( [$name], %options )

Collect all information for a certain operation.  Returned is an
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation|XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation> object.

An operation is defined by a service name, a port, some bindings,
and an operation name, which can be specified explicitly and is often
left-out: in the many configurations where there are no alternative
choices. In case there are alternatives, you will be requested to
pick an option.

 -Option     --Default
  action       <undef>
  operation    <required>
  port         <only when just one port in WSDL>
  server_type  undef
  service      <only when just one service in WSDL>

=over 2

=item action => STRING

Overrule the soapAction from the WSDL.

=item operation => NAME

Ignored when the parameter list starts with a $name (which is an
alternative for this option).  Optional when there is only
one operation defined within the portType.

=item port => NAME

Required when more than one port is defined.

=item server_type => NAME

Overrules L<new(server_type)|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Constructors">.

=item service => QNAME|PREFIXED

Required when more than one service is defined.

=back

=back

=head2 Administration

Extends L<"Administration" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"Administration">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<declare>($group, $component|ARRAY, %options)

Register specific compile %options for the specific $component. See also
L<XML::Compile::Cache::declare()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Administration">. The $group is either C<READER>,
C<WRITER>, C<RW> (both reader and writer), or C<OPERATION>.  As $component,
you specify the element name (for readers and writers) or operation name
(for operations). %options are specified as LIST, ARRAY or HASH.

example: 

   $wsdl->declare(OPERATION => 'GetStockPrice', @extra_opts);
   $wsdl->compileCalls;
   my $answer = $wsdl->call(GetStockPrice => %request);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<doesExtend>($exttype, $basetype)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<elements>()

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<findName>($name)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<findSchemaFile>($filename)

=item XML::Compile::WSDL11-E<gt>B<findSchemaFile>($filename)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<importDefinitions>($xmldata, %options)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<knownNamespace>($ns|PAIRS)

=item XML::Compile::WSDL11-E<gt>B<knownNamespace>($ns|PAIRS)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<namespaces>()

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<types>()

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<walkTree>($node, CODE)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile/"Administration">

=back

=head2 Introspection

All of the following methods are usually NOT meant for end-users. End-users
should stick to the L<operation()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Extension"> and L<compileClient()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Extension"> methods.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<endPoint>(%options)

[2.20] Returns the address of the server, as specified by the WSDL. When
there are no alternatives for service or port, you not not need to
specify those parameters.

The endpoint in the WSDL is often wrong.  All compile functions accept
the C<server> and C<endpoint> parameters to overrule the value.  With
C<server>, only the hostname:port is being replaced.  With C<endpoint>,
everything is replaced.

 -Option --Default
  port     <undef>
  service  <undef>

=over 2

=item port => NAME

=item service => QNAME|PREFIXED

=back

example: 

 my $devel = URI->new($wsdl->endPoint);
 $devel->path('/sdk');
 my $call = $wsdl->compileCall($opname, endpoint => $devel);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<explain>($operation, $format, $direction, %options)

[2.13]
Produce templates (see L<XML::Compile::Schema::template()|XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers"> which detail
the use of the $operation. Currently, only the C<PERL> template $format
is available.

The $direction of operation is either C<INPUT> (input for the server,
hence to be produced by the client), or C<OUTPUT> (from the server,
received by the client).

The actual work is done by L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation::explain()|XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation/"Helpers">. The
%options passed to that method include C<recurse> and C<skip_header>.

example: 

  print $wsdl->explain('CheckStatus', PERL => 'INPUT');

  print $wsdl->explain('CheckStatus', PERL => 'OUTPUT'
     , recurse => 1                 # explain options
     , port    => 'Soap12PortName'  # operation options
     );

  foreach my $op ($wsdl->operations)
  {  print $op->explain($wsdl, PERL => 'INPUT');
  }

=item $obj-E<gt>B<findDef>( $class, <$qname|$prefixed|$name> )

With a $qname, the HASH which contains the parsed XML information
from the WSDL template for that $class-$name combination is returned.
You may also have a $prefixed name, using one of the predefined namespace
abbreviations.  Otherwise, $name is considered to be the localName in
that class.  When the $name is not found, an error is produced.

Without $qname in SCALAR context, there may only be one such name
defined otherwise an error is produced.  In LIST context, all definitions
in $class are returned.

example: 

 $service  = $obj->findDef(service => 'http://xyz');
 @services = $obj->findDef('service');

=item $obj-E<gt>B<index>( [$class, [$qname]] )

With a $class and $qname, it returns one WSDL definition HASH or undef.
Returns the index for the $class group of names as HASH.  When no $class is
specified, a HASH of HASHes is returned with the CLASSes on the top-level.

$class includes C<service>, C<binding>, C<portType>, and C<message>.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<operations>(%options)

Return a list with all operations defined in the WSDL.

 -Option     --Default
  binding      <undef>
  port         <undef>
  server_type  undef
  service      <undef>

=over 2

=item binding => NAME

Only return operations which use the binding with the specified NAME.
By default, all bindings are accepted.

=item port => NAME

Return only operations related to the specified port NAME.
By default operations from all ports.

=item server_type => STRING

[3.06]

=item service => NAME

Only return operations related to the NAMEd service, by default all services.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<printIndex>( [$fh], %options )

For available %options, see L<operations()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Introspection">.  This method is useful to
understand the structure of your WSDL: it shows a nested list of
services, bindings, ports and portTypes.

 -Option       --Defined in         --Default
  show_declared  XML::Compile::Cache  <true>

=over 2

=item show_declared => BOOLEAN

=back

=back

=head1 DETAILS

Extends L<"DETAILS" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"DETAILS">.
 
=head2 Distribution collection overview

Extends L<"Distribution collection overview" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"Distribution collection overview">.
 
=head2 Comparison

Extends L<"Comparison" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"Comparison">.
 
=head2 Collecting definitions

Extends L<"Collecting definitions" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"Collecting definitions">.
 
=head2 Addressing components

Extends L<"Addressing components" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"Addressing components">.
 
=head2 Representing data-structures

Extends L<"Representing data-structures" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"Representing data-structures">.
 
=head2 Schema hooks

Extends L<"Schema hooks" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"Schema hooks">.
 
=head2 Typemaps

Extends L<"Typemaps" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"Typemaps">.
 
=head2 Handling xsi:type

Extends L<"Handling xsi:type" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"Handling xsi:type">.
 
=head2 Key rewrite

Extends L<"Key rewrite" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"Key rewrite">.
 
=head2 Initializing SOAP operations via WSDL

When you have a WSDL file, then SOAP is simple.  If there is no such file
at hand, then it is still possible to use SOAP.  See the DETAILS chapter
in L<XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP>.

The WSDL file contains operations which can be addressed by name.
In the WSDL file you need to find the name of the port to be used.
In most cases, the WSDL has only one service, one port, one binding,
and one portType and those names can therefore be omitted.  If there is
a choice, then you must explicitly select one.

 use XML::Compile::WSDL11 ();

 # once in your program
 my $wsdl   = XML::Compile::WSDL11->new('def.wsdl');

 # XML::Compile::Schema refuses to follow "include" and
 # "import" commands, so you need to invoke them explicitly.
 # $wsdl->addWSDL('file2.wsdl');            # optional
 # $wsdl->importDefinitions('schema1.xsd'); # optional

 # once for each of the defined operations
 my $call   = $wsdl->compileClient('GetStockPrice');

 # see XML::Compile::SOAP chapter DETAILS about call params
 my $answer = $call->(%request);

=head1 DESCRIPTIONS

Extends L<"DESCRIPTIONS" in XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache/"DESCRIPTIONS">.
 
=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-WSDL11 distribution version 3.06,
built on January 11, 2017. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile> .
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2014-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

