package Elastic::Manual;

# ABSTRACT: What is Elastic::Model and how do I use it?

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Elastic::Manual - What is Elastic::Model and how do I use it?

=head1 VERSION

version 0.52

=head1 WHAT IS ELASTIC::MODEL?

Elastic::Model is a framework to store your Moose objects, which uses
Elasticsearch as a NoSQL document store and flexible search engine.

It is designed to make it easy to start using Elasticsearch with minimal extra
code, but allows you full access to the rich feature set available in
Elasticsearch as soon as you are ready to use it.

For a brief example of how Elastic::Model works, you should start by reading
L<Elastic::Manual::Intro>.

=head1 WHAT IS ELASTICSEARCH?

L<Elasticsearch|http://www.Elasticsearch.org> is an open-source
L<Lucene|http://lucene.apache.org/core/>-based full-text search engine,
and a NoSQL document store / database.

=head2 Schema-free and document oriented

Elasticsearch stores your objects as JSON documents. Most Perl objects
can be mapped easily to their JSON equivalent.

It is schema free, in that you don't need to define your
field/properties/attributes ahead of time; you can just toss it a JSON
document and it'll try to autodetect data types and index your doc. That
said, the power of full text search comes from the ability to configure
your search to suit your data and requirements. Sophisticated options
exist to give you complete control over how your data is indexed.

=head2 Real-time

Elasticsearch is a real-time data store (as soon as your document is indexed, it
can be retrieved from any node in the cluster) and has near-real-time search.
By default, docs become visible to search within 1 second of being indexed.

=head2 Distributed

Elasticsearch is built to scale out of the box.  It is easy to start with a
single node, and to add new nodes as required, giving you high availability
and huge scale. A cluster can scale to hundreds of nodes and terrabytes of
data. If a node goes down, the cluster will automatically redistribute and
just keep on working.

=head1 TABLE OF CONTENTS

=head2 L<Elastic::Manual::Intro>

Start by reading L<Elastic::Manual::Intro> for a gentle introduction to
L<Elastic::Model>.

=head2 L<Elastic::Manual::Delta>

Contains important information about changes to Elastic::Model and migration
paths.

=head2 L<Elastic::Manual::Terminology>

A brief definition of some of the terms used by Elasticsearch and Elastic::Model.

=head2 L<Elastic::Manual::NoSQL>

Some things you need to think about when moving from a relational DB to a
NoSQL document store like Elasticsearch.

=head2 L<Elastic::Manual::Attributes>

Fine-tuning how the attributes in your Elastic::Doc classes are indexed.

=head2 L<Elastic::Manual::Attributes::Unique>

Making attributes in your Elastic::Doc classes unique.

=head2 L<Elastic::Manual::Reindex>

How to reindex your data when you make changes to your attributes.

=head2 L<Elastic::Manual::QueryDSL>

Using the Elasticsearch Query DSL (and the L<ElasticSearch::SearchBuilder>
syntax) to query your documents efficiently.

=head3 L<Elastic::Manual::QueryDSL::Queries>

Commonly used queries

=head3 L<Elastic::Manual::QueryDSL::Filters>

Commonly used filters

=head3 L<Elastic::Manual::QueryDSL::Nested>

Queries and filters for C<"nested"> fields.

=head2 L<Elastic::Manual::Searching>

Which search method to use with a View, and how to iterate through the results.

=head2 L<Elastic::Manual::Analysis>

Controlling how your attributes are indexed so that they can be queried
as you need.

=head2 L<Elastic::Manual::Scaling>

How to use Elastic::Model to go from a small development environment to
massive scale.

=head2 L<Elastic::Manual::Scoping>

When and how to use L<Scopes|Elastic::Model::Scope>, an optional in-memory
cache (but required if you use weak refs).

=head1 BUGS

This is a new module, so there will probably be bugs, and the API may change
in the future.

If you have any suggestions for improvements, or find any bugs, please
report them to http://github.com/clintongormley/Elastic-Model/issues. I
will be notified, and then you'll automatically be notified of progress on
your bug as I make changes.

=head1 TEST SUITE

The full test suite requires a live Elasticsearch cluster to run.  CPAN
testers doesn't support this.  You can see full test results here:
L<http://travis-ci.org/#!/clintongormley/Elastic-Model/builds>.

To run the full test suite locally, run it as:

    perl Makefile.PL
    ES_HOME=/path/to/Elasticsearch make test

Or, if you are happy for any index starting with C<"myapp"> to be deleted,
you can start your Elasticsearch server and run it as:

    perl Makefile.PL
    ES='localhost:9200' make test

This is much faster as it doesn't have to restart the server multiple times,
but you will lose any indices matching C</^myapp.*/>.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Elastic::Manual

You can also look for information at:

=over

=item * IRC

The L<#Elasticsearch|irc://irc.perl.org/Elasticsearch> channel on
C<irc.perl.org> is a Perl-specific channel for L<Elastic::Model> and
L<Elasticsearch>.

The main Elasticsearch channel:
L<#Elasticsearch|irc://irc.freenode.net/Elasticsearch> on C<irc.freenode.net>.

=item * Mailing list

The Elastic::Model mailing list is available on:
L<https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/elastic-model>.

The main Elasticsearch mailing list can be found on
L<http://www.Elasticsearch.org/community/forum/>.

=item * GitHub

L<http://github.com/clintongormley/Elastic-Model>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Elastic-Model>

=item * Search MetaCPAN

L<https://metacpan.org/module/Elastic::Model>

=back

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Thanks to Shay Banon, the Elasticsearch author, for producing an amazingly
easy to use search engine, to L<PERLER|https://metacpan.org/author/PERLER>
for writing L<ElasticSearchX::Model>, which was the original inspiration,
to L<FLORA|https://metacpan.org/author/FLORA> and
L<MSTROUT|https://metacpan.org/author/MSTROUT> for encouraging me to do
better, and to L<DOY|https://metacpan.org/author/DOY> for guiding me
through Moose internals.

=head1 AUTHOR

Clinton Gormley <drtech@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2015 by Clinton Gormley.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
