$Id: GMUCK.pod,v 1.9 2007/03/11 16:16:42 scop Exp $

=head1 NAME

HTML::GMUCK - The Generated MarkUp ChecKer

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use HTML::GMUCK ();

 my $gmuck = HTML::GMUCK->new( mode           => 'XHTML',
                               tab_width      => 4,
                               quote          => '"',
                               min_attributes => 1,
                             );

 my @elem_errors = $gmuck->elements  ($string);
 my @attr_errors = $gmuck->attributes($string);
 my @ent_errors  = $gmuck->entities  ($string);
 my @doct_errors = $gmuck->doctype   ($string);
 my @mime_errors = $gmuck->mime_types($string);
 my @depr_errors = $gmuck->deprecated($string);

 my $mode      = $gmuck->mode();
 my $mode      = $gmuck->mode('HTML');

 my $tab_width = $gmuck->tab_width();
 my $tab_width = $gmuck->tab_width(2);

 my $min_attrs = $gmuck->min_attributes();
 my $min_attrs = $gmuck->min_attributes(1);

 my ($num_errors, $num_warnings) = $gmuck->stats();
 my ($num_errors, $num_warnings) = $gmuck->reset();

 my $version = $gmuck->full_version();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

HTML::GMUCK is the module part of gmuck.  It contains the logic for the
checks and provides an OO interface to them.

=head1 CONSTRUCTORS

The following constructor is available:

=over 4

=item B<new>

  $gmuck = HTML::GMUCK->new( %options );

Class method, constructs a new C<HTML::GMUCK> object and returns
a reference to it.

Options may be specified in key/value pairs:

I<mode> sets the initial mode of the GMUCK object,
the default is 'XHTML'. See L<mode()>.

I<tab_width> the initial value of TAB width, the default is 4.
See L<tab_width()>.

I<quote> sets your preferred character for attribute quoting,
the default is '"' (the double quote).
See L<quote()>.

I<min_attributes> enables or disables minimized attribute checks,
the default is enabled.
See L<min_attributes()> and L<attributes()>.

=back

=head1 CHECKER METHODS

The checker methods contain the functionality of HTML::GMUCK.
All of them are instance methods, take a list of lines as an argument,
and return a list of errors.

B<For now>, the lines passed as arguments will be checked one by one,
but in the future, the meaning is that they will be checked as one
logical entity.  The idea is to provide a bit of context for checking.
So to ensure future compatibility, pass only one line at a time.

The errors in the returned list are hash references, with the following
keys:

I<line> contains the line number (in the argument array of lines)
where the error was found.  Never undefined; the first line number is 0.

I<col> contains the column (character) number where the error was found.
Never undefined; the first column number is 0.
This will also be 0 in the rare cases that the column could not be
resolved.

I<type> contains the type of the error.
Never undefined, 'E' for errors, 'W' for warnings.

I<elem> contains the element name (string) of the error.
Undefined if not available.

I<attr> contains the attribute name (string) of the error.
Undefined if not available.

I<mesg> contains the message for the error.
Never undefined.

The following checker instance methods are available:

=over 4

=item B<elements>

  @errors = $gmuck->elements(@lines);

Checks elements;  eg. the CasE of the elements and end tags.

=item B<attributes>

  @errors = $gmuck->attributes(@lines);

Checks attributes.

=item B<entities>

  @errors = $gmuck->entities(@lines);

Checks entities;  eg. illegal '&' vs. '&amp;' in URIs.

=item B<doctype>

  @errors = $gmuck->doctype(@lines);

Checks DOCTYPE declarations.

=item B<mime_types>

  @errors = $gmuck->mime_types(@lines);

Checks MIME types;  eg. unregistered ones.

=item B<deprecated>

  @errors = $gmuck->deprecated(@lines);

Checks deprecated things;  eg. deprecated elements and attributes.

=back

=head1 ACCESSORS, MUTATORS

The following accessor and mutator instance methods are available:

=over 4

=item B<mode>

  $mode = $gmuck->mode( [$mode] );

Gets, or if called with an optional argument, sets the mode of the
object.  Valid modes are 'XHTML', 'HTML' and 'XML'.

The mode of an HTML::GMUCK object affects the tests; you should set
this corresponding to the kind of markup you are generating (or
checking).

Note that setting the mode when the current mode is 'HTML' and the
current quote character is '' (the empty string) will also set the
quote character to '"' (the double quote).

=item B<tab_width>

  $tab_width = $gmuck->tab_width( [$tab_width] );

Gets, or if called with the optional argument, sets the TAB width
of the object.  Valid values are integers > 0.

TAB width is used when calculating the line position for an error or
warning message, ie. how many spaces does one TAB character count as.

=item B<quote>

  $quote = $gmuck->quote( [$quote] );

Gets, or if called with an optional argument, sets the preferred
quote character of the object.  Valid values are '"' (the double quote),
''' (the single quote) and '' (the empty string).

=item B<min_attributes>

  $min_attrs = $gmuck->min_attributes( [$min_attrs] );

Gets, or if called with an optional argument, sets whether minimized
attributes will be checked when attributes() is called.  A true value
enables the checks, a non-true disables them.  It is not allowed to
turn off checks for minimized attributes in XML-based modes (XHTML, XML).

=item B<stats>

  ($errors, $warnings) = $gmuck->stats();

Retrieves the count of errors and warnings that the object has found.

=item B<reset>

  ($errors, $warnings) = $gmuck->reset();

Similar to stats(), but also resets the error and warning counts to 0.

=item B<full_version>

  $version = $gmuck->full_version();
  $version = HTML::GMUCK::full_version();

Gets the version, with information about other packages in use.
You can also call this as a function.

=back

=head1 EXPORT

Nothing at the moment.

=head1 CAVEATS

You may get warnings about script media types, and a recommendation to
use something else for them.  However, some browsers, notably Microsoft
Internet Explorer 6.0 has been reported not to execute scripts that use
some of the recommended registered scripting media types.  See
E<lt>http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4329.txtE<gt> and
E<lt>http://www.robinlionheart.com/stds/html4/scripts.htmlE<gt> for more
information.  If this is a concern, one solution is to use some of the
media types marked as obsolete in RFC 4329 for interoperability purposes
and ignore related messages from gmuck.

=head1 BUGS

Due to the impossible task of this tool, there are and will be bugs,
lots of them.  There is a thin line between reporting lots of bogus
errors and spotting enough real ones.

See F<BUGS> in the distribution for an up to date list.

=head1 TODO

See F<TODO> in the distribution for an up to date list.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<gmuck(1)>

The gmuck homepage,
 E<lt>http://gmuck.sourceforge.net/E<gt>

The W3C MarkUp Validation Service
 E<lt>http://validator.w3.org/E<gt>

WDG HTML Validator
 E<lt>http://www.htmlhelp.com/tools/validator/E<gt>

Site Valet
 E<lt>http://valet.htmlhelp.com/E<gt>

L<HTML::Validator>

=head1 AUTHOR

Ville Skyttä E<lt>ville.skytta at iki.fiE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2001-2007 Ville Skyttä.  All rights reserved.

This program is free software, you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of The Artistic License or the GNU General Public
License ("GPL") as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2 of the GPL, or (at your option) any later version.

=cut
