package Rinci::package; # just to make PodWeaver happy

# AUTHORITY
# DATE
our $DIST = 'Rinci'; # DIST
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Metadata for your namespaces/packages

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Rinci::package - Metadata for your namespaces/packages

=head1 SPECIFICATION VERSION

 1.1

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 1.1.101 of Rinci::package (from Perl distribution Rinci), released on 2022-03-20.

=head1 INTRODUCTION

This document describes metadata for namespaces/packages. This specification is
part of L<Rinci>. Please do a read up on it first, if you have not already done
so.

=head1 SPECIFICATION

B<Namespace? Package?> The term "package" from Perl 5 is used here, where it
just means namespace. Perl also happens to use package to implement class, but
metadata for classes will be specified in another specification
(L<Rinci::class>).

=head1 FAQ

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Rinci>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Rinci>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Rinci>

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTING


To contribute, you can send patches by email/via RT, or send pull requests on
GitHub.

Most of the time, you don't need to build the distribution yourself. You can
simply modify the code, then test via:

 % prove -l

If you want to build the distribution (e.g. to try to install it locally on your
system), you can install L<Dist::Zilla>,
L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>, and sometimes one or two other
Dist::Zilla plugin and/or Pod::Weaver::Plugin. Any additional steps required
beyond that are considered a bug and can be reported to me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2022, 2021, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012 by perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Rinci>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
