package Rinci::Upgrading; # just to make PodWeaver happy

# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Upgrading from previous version of specification

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Rinci::Upgrading - Upgrading from previous version of specification

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 1.1.93 of Rinci::Upgrading (from Perl distribution Rinci), released on 2019-07-19.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document gives guide on how to convert your metadata from older version.

Examples are written in Perl, but are not limited to this language.

=head1 UPGRADING FROM SUB::SPEC 1.0 TO RINCI 1.1

=head2 Upgrading function metadata

In Perl, you can use L<Perinci::Sub::Wrapper> (which in turn is used by
L<Perinci::Access>) to automatically convert Sub::Spec 1.0 metadata to 1.1, so
you can skip this document if you want.

Terminology change: B<(sub) spec> is now called metadata: the reason is because
there are now metadata for functions as well as other code entities like
variables, packages, etc. B<clause> is now called B<property>: the reason is to
avoid confusion with L<Data::Sah>'s clause.

The C<v> (spec version) property is required, add

 v => 1.1

to your function metadata.

Each argument in the C<args> property is now a hash, instead of a schema. Move
the schema to the C<schema> key of the hash. To specify required argument, add
C<req> set to 1 to hash key. Move C<arg_pos> Sah clause to C<pos> hash key. Move
C<arg_greedy> Sah clause to C<greedy> hash key. Move C<arg_completion> Sah
clause to C<completion> hash key.

Example, change this:

 args => {
     # a required argument
     arg1 => ['int*', {
         summary => 'Blah ...',
         min => 1, max => 100,
         arg_pos => 0,
     }],

     # an optional argument
     arg2 => ['bool', {
         summary => 'Blah ...',
         default => 0,
     }],
 }

Into this:

 args => {
     arg1 => {
         summary => 'Blah ...',
         schema => ['int*', {min=>1, max=>100}],
         req => 1,
         pos => 0,
     },

     arg2 => {
         summary => 'Blah ...',
         schema => [bool => {default=>0}],
     },
 }

It is now possible to give summary and description to the schema as well as to
the argument.

Accordingly, the C<result> property is also now a hash, instead of schema. Move
the schema into the C<schema> hash key.

=head2 Sub::Spec::HTTP

For the most part, you only need to upgrade client and server library. Client
library is now L<Perinci::CmdLine> and L<Perinci::Access>. Server library is now
C<Perinci::Access::HTTP::Server>.

Specification is now L<Riap> and L<Riap::HTTP>. Terminology changes. B<SS
request> now becomes B<Riap request>. Some key names changed (shortened).
Special headers are now prefixed with B<X-Riap-*> instead of B<X-SS-Req-*>.

Log levels are now numeric only (1-6) instead of numeric/string.

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Rinci>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Rinci>.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Rinci>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012 by perlancar@cpan.org.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
