package Rinci::variable; # just to make PodWeaver happy

# AUTHORITY
# DATE
our $DIST = 'Rinci'; # DIST
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Metadata for your variables

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Rinci::variable - Metadata for your variables

=head1 SPECIFICATION VERSION

 1.1

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 1.1.102 of Rinci::variable (from Perl distribution Rinci), released on 2022-04-22.

=head1 INTRODUCTION

This document describes metadata for variables. This specification is part of
L<Rinci>. Please do a read up on it first, if you have not already done so.

=head1 SPECIFICATION

There is currently no metadata properties specific to variables.

=head2 Property: schema => SCHEMA

Specify the Sah schema that the variable's value must validate to. This can be
used by a variable wrapper (getter/setter generator) tool to make sure that
variable always contains valid values.

Example:

 # metadata for variable $Meaning_Of_Life
 {
     ...
     summary => 'The meaning of life',
     schema => [int => {between => [1, 100]},
 }

=head1 FAQ

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Rinci>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Rinci>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Rinci>

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTING


To contribute, you can send patches by email/via RT, or send pull requests on
GitHub.

Most of the time, you don't need to build the distribution yourself. You can
simply modify the code, then test via:

 % prove -l

If you want to build the distribution (e.g. to try to install it locally on your
system), you can install L<Dist::Zilla>,
L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>, and sometimes one or two other
Dist::Zilla plugin and/or Pod::Weaver::Plugin. Any additional steps required
beyond that are considered a bug and can be reported to me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2022, 2021, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012 by perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Rinci>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
