=head1 NAME

Mail::Qmail::Queue::README - Overview of Mail::Qmail::Queue

=head1 SYNOPSIS

C<Mail::Qmail::Queue> is a small collection of modules to help with
talking to L<qmail-queue|qmail-queue(8)> and/or writing replacements
for it.  It also contains some handy command-line tools for testing
C<qmail-queue> or its replacements.

Writing C<qmail-queue> replacements is a popular way to replace parts
of the functionality of the functionality of
qmail (L<http://cr.yp.to/qmail.html>).  Because of qmail's modular
style, it's easy to swap out individual components to change their
behavior.

This is commonly done with Bruce Guenter's QMAILQUEUE patch
(L<http://www.qmail.org/top.html#qmailqueue>), also included in
netqmail (L<http://www.qmail.org/netqmail/>).  This patch lets you
override the standard C<qmail-queue> program by setting the
environment variable C<QMAILQUEUE>.  It can also be done by renaming
the original C<qmail-queue>, installing your script in its place, and
having your script call the renamed C<qmail-queue> to inject the
message.

=head1 MODULES

=over 4

=item L<Mail::Qmail::Queue::Message|Mail::Qmail::Queue::Message>

Easy-to-use module for sending and receiving messages.

=item L<Mail::Qmail::Queue::Receive::Envelope|Mail::Qmail::Queue::Receive::Envelope>

Receive the envelope of a message.

=item L<Mail::Qmail::Queue::Receive::Body|Mail::Qmail::Queue::Receive::Body>

Receive the body of a message.

=item L<Mail::Qmail::Queue::Send|Mail::Qmail::Queue::Send>

Send a message body and envelope.

=item L<Mail::Qmail::Queue::Error|Mail::Qmail::Queue::Error>

Utilities for handling errors.

=back

=head1 UTILITIES

These utilities are useful for debugging and testing.

=over 4

=item L<qqtest|qqtest>

Test a C<qmail-queue> replacement.

=item L<qqdump|qqdump>

Dump the information sent to a C<qmail-queue> replacement.

=back


=head1 BUGS

By convention, Perl modules start with an upper-case letter.
Therefore, this module is called C<Mail::Qmail::Queue>, even though
that's not the proper capitalization for C<qmail>.
