
=head1 NAME

File::HomeDir::Tiny - Find your home directory

=head1 VERSION

0.01

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use File::HomeDir::Tiny;
  $home = home;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is useful for the 90% of the time that you only need 10% of
L<File::HomeDir>'s functionality.  It depends on no other modules and
consists of just fourteen lines of code.

=head1 EXPORT

C<home> is exported by default.  If you do not want to import it, use
parentheses:

  use File::HomeDir::Tiny ();
  $home = File::HomeDir::Tiny::home;

But why would you want to type all that?

=head1 WHEN TO USE IT AND WHEN NOT TO USE IT

If you need more functionality than just the current user's home folder,
then try L<File::HomeDir>.

If your code is only going to run on Unix, you do not need to bother with
any module.  Just use the alien spaceship operator:

  ($home) = <~> ;

If your code is only going to run on 5.16 and later, again, you can use the
alien spaceship:

  { use v5.16 }
  ($home) = <~> ;  # Didn't I just mention this?

If your code may need to run on Windows on perl 5.14 or earlier, where the
alien spaceship does not work, then use this module:

  use File'HomeDir'Tiny;  # ' so it looks *old*
  $home = home;

Notice also that I put parentheses around $home in the spaceship examples.
This is because the alien spaceship is an iterator.  In scalar context it
will alternate between returning the home directory and returning the
undefined value.  (It is alien, after all.)  You can ovoid this by
evaluating it in list context; either of these will work:

  ($home) = <~>;
  $hoem = (<~>)[0];

So, if you want to avoid this pitfall, or if you just prefer C<home> to
C<a bunch of punctuation marks>, use this module:

  use File::HomeDir::Tiny; # :: so it looks *new*!
  $home = home;

=head1 PREREQUISITES

None except perl.  I believe this module will work all the back to Perl
5.004, but have not been able to verify.  The earliest I tested with was
5.8.7.

I have no idea whether this works on VMS.

=head1 AUTHOR & COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2017 Father Chrysostomos <sprout [at] cpan
[dot] org>

This program is free software; you may redistribute it, modify it, or both
under the same terms as perl.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The Windows logic for perl 5.14 and earlier was based on this L<File::Glob>
commit by Douglas Christopher Wilson:
L<https://perl5.git.perl.org/perl.git/commitdiff/528bd3ce854>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<File::HomeDir>
