=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 The App::ipinfo module

This is the I<README> for the L<App::ipinfo> Perl module.

You're probably looking at this because you don't know where else to
find what you're looking for. Read this once and you might never have
to read one again for any Perl module.

=head2 Documentation

To read about L<App::ipinfo>, look at the embedded documentation
in the module itself. Inside the distribution, you can format it
with L<perldoc|http://perldoc.perl.org/perldoc.html>:

	% perldoc lib/App/ipinfo.pm

If you have already installed the module, you can specify the module
name instead of the file location:

	% perldoc App::ipinfo

You can read the documentation and inspect the meta data on
L<MetaCPAN|http://www.metacpan.org/pod/App::ipinfo>.

The standard module documentation has example uses in the SYNOPSIS
section, but you can also look in the I<examples/> directory (if it's
there), or look at the test files in I<t/>.

=head2 Installation

You can install this module with a CPAN client, which will resolve
and install the dependencies:

	% cpan App::ipinfo
	% cpanm App::ipinfo

You can also install directly from the distribution directory, which
will also install the dependencies:

	% cpan .
	% cpanm .

You could install just this module manually:

	% perl Makefile.PL
	% make
	% make test
	% make install

You probably don't want to do that unless you're fiddling with the
module and only want to run the tests without installing anything.

=head2 Source location

The meta data, such as the source repository and bug tracker, is in
I<Makefile.PL> or the I<META.*> files it creates. You can find that on
those CPAN web interfaces, but you can also look at files directly in
the source repository: L<https://github.com/briandfoy/app-ipinfo>

If you find a problem, file a ticket in the L<issue
tracker|https://github.com/briandfoy/app-ipinfo/issues>.

There are also backup repositories hosted on other services. These
reflect the state of the main repo and exist only for redundancy:

=over 4

=item * L<https://bitbucket.com/briandfoy/app-ipinfo>

=item * L<https://codeberg.org/briandfoy/app-ipinfo>

=item * L<https://gitlab.com/briandfoy/app-ipinfo>

=back

=head2 GitHub Attestations

This distribution now uses
L<GitHub Attestations|https://github.blog/2024-05-02-introducing-artifact-attestations-now-in-public-beta/>,
which allow you to verify that the archive file you have was made from
the official repo.

You need a GitHub account and the L<gh tool|https://github.com/larsks/ghcli>.

	# download the distro file from GitHub, MetaCPAN, or a CPAN mirror
	$ gh auth login
	...follow instructions...
	$ gh attestation verify App::ipinfo-1.23.tar.gz --owner briandfoy

=head2 Getting help

Although I'm happy to hear from module users in private email,
that's the best way for me to forget to do something.

Besides the issue trackers, you can find help at
L<Perlmonks|http://www.perlmonks.org> or
L<Stackoverflow|http://www.stackoverflow.com>, both of which have many
competent Perlers who can answer your question, almost in real time.
They might not know the particulars of this module, but they can help
you diagnose your problem.

You might like to read L<brian's Guide to Solving Any Perl
Problem|https://briandfoy.github.io/brians-guide-to-solving-any-perl-problem/>.

=head2 Copyright and License

You should have received a I<LICENSE> file, but the license is also noted
in the module files. About the only thing you can't do is pretend that
you wrote code that you didn't.

=head2 Good luck!

Enjoy,

brian d foy, briandfoy@pobox.com

=cut
