=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Net::Domain::SMD::RL - SMD Revokation List

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Net::Domain::SMD::RL
   is a Exporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $srl  = Net::Domain::SMD::RL->new(revoked => \@serials
     , source => 'database table xyz');

  my $srl  = Net::Domain::SMD::RL->fromFile($fn, %options);
  my $srl  = Net::Domain::SMD::RL->fromURI($uri, %options);

  if($srl->isRevoked($smd)) ...
  if($srl->isRevoked($smd)) ...

  my $tmch = Net::Domain::TMCH->new
    ( ...
    , smd_revocations => \@srls   # or $srl
    );
  my @srl = $tmch->smdRevocations;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Draft RFC L<http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-lozano-tmch-func-07>
specifies a way for TLD (domain registries) to exchange mark
rights (brand registrations).  This module manages the files which
list revocation of SMD files.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fromFile>($filename, %options)

Read a RL from file, for instance a cached or test RL.
The %options are passed to L<new()|Net::Domain::SMD::RL/"Constructors">.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fromURI>($uri, %options)

Create a new RL object from an $uri, which is collected dynamically.  The
%options are passed to L<new()|Net::Domain::SMD::RL/"Constructors">.

=item Net::Domain::SMD::RL-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option --Default
  revoked  []
  source   <required>

=over 2

=item revoked => HASH|ARRAY

ARRAY of serial numbers from revoked certificates, or a HASH of which the
keys are the revoked serials.

=item source => STRING|FILENAME|URI

Identification for the source of this list, to be used in error message
and such.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<source>()

=back

=head2 Actions

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<isRevoked>($smd|$smdid)

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Net-Domain-TMCH distribution version 0.18,
built on December 30, 2015.  Development was supported by NIC.at, the Austrian
Domainname Registry.

 Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/net-domain-tmch/>

The documentation and interface style is consistent with a large set of
modules, belonging to the L<XML::Compile> suite.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2013-2015 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

