=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Net::Domain::SMD::Schema - Mark and Signed-Mark Objects Mapping

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Net::Domain::SMD::Schema
   is a Exporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # This object is used by Net::Domain::TMCH, so usually not directly
  # accessed by end-users.

  my $smd  = Net::Domain::SMD::Schema->new(%options);
  my $info = $smd->read($fn);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Draft RFC L<http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-lozano-tmch-smd-02>
specifies a way for TLD (domain registries) to exchange mark
rights (brand registrations): "SMD"-files.

This module unpacks these SMD-files, decoding the XML contained in them.
Each SMD-file is represented by a separate L<Net::Domain::SMD::File|Net::Domain::SMD::File>
object.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Net::Domain::SMD::Schema-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option         --Default
  auto_datetime    false
  tmv_certificate  <undef>

=over 2

=item auto_datetime => BOOLEAN

Convert all dateTime fields into DateTime objects.

=item tmv_certificate => Crypt::OpenSSL::X509 object

[0.18] Enables writing of SMD structures, using this certificate to sign
the content.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schemas>()

=back

=head2 Actions

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<createSignedMark>($document, $data, %options)

Used by L<Net::Domain::TMCH::createSignedMark()|Net::Domain::TMCH/"Actions"> to produce an XML
structure to be included in the $document, which may (for instance) be an
SMD file or an EPP message.

=item Net::Domain::SMD::Schema-E<gt>B<from>( <$filename|$xmlnode|STRING>, %options )

Returns an L<Net::Domain::SMD|Net::Domain::SMD> object and a source string, which represents
the xml input data.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<read>($filename)

Returns an L<Net::Domain::SMD::File|Net::Domain::SMD::File> object, or an exception which can
be caught with Log::Report subroutine try or C<eval>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Net-Domain-TMCH distribution version 0.18,
built on December 30, 2015.  Development was supported by NIC.at, the Austrian
Domainname Registry.

 Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/net-domain-tmch/>

The documentation and interface style is consistent with a large set of
modules, belonging to the L<XML::Compile> suite.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2013-2015 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

