=head1 NAME

CHANGES - Revision history for WordNet::SenseRelate::AllWords

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=over

=item 0.19

Date : May 27, 2009 

=over

=item 1) 

Added --backoff option to wsd.pl. This option backs off to WordNet sense1 if the measure 
can't assign any sense. 

=item 2) 

semcor-reformat.pl used querySense and reformatted the original text that contained the 
first word in the synset instead of the original word. It no more uses querySense and 
the formatted text contains the original semcor lemmas. 

=item 3)

Added scripts utils/extract-semcor-plaintext.pl, utils/extract-semcor-contentwords.pl and
utils/convert-PENN-to-WN.pl. 

utils/extract-semcor-plaintext.pl extracts plain text from a semcor formatted file. 
The text contains function words, content words as well as punctuation marks. This text is 
used for part-of-speech tagging. 

utils/extract-semcor-contentwords.pl extracts content words given an answer file (typically 
a plain text file extracted using extract-semcor-plaintext.pl which has been tagged using 
a part of speech tagger) and a key file extracted using extract-semcor-plaintext.pl --key 
option.

utils/convert-PENN-to-WN.pl takes PENN treeb bank tagged text (format word PENNPOS per line) 
and converts it to WordNet tagged text. 

=item 4)

Added default config files web/cgi-bin/allwords/user_data/lesk-stoplist.conf and 
web/cgi-bin/allwords/user_data/vector-stoplist.conf to the web folder. 
This is important because if the default config stoplists are not used for lesk and vector 
, they end up giving unexpected results. 

=item 5)

Changed scorer2-format.pl to format the string only if it is in word#pos#sense format. 

=back 


=item 0.18

Date : April 30, 2009 

=over

=item 1) 

Added following options to wsd.pl

--usemono        enable assigning the only available sense to monosemy words

This is a change in AllWords.pm, where we assign the available sense to monosemy words.
This results in increased precision and overall fmeasure because many measures can not get 
these words right as they can't find relatedness with the surrounding words. 

=item 2) Added following options to allwords-scorer2.pl

=over

=item 1. --word               score only this specific instance

=item 2. --exceptword         score all instances except for these instances

=item 3. --score poly         score only polysemes instances

=item 4. --score s1nc         score only the instances where the most frequent sense is not correct

=item 5. --score    n         score only the instances having n number of senses

=back

These options are added in order to carry different experiments.

=item 3) 

Fixed the script calculate-corpus-stats.pl. This is a perl script that gives corpus statistics
given a semcor-reformatted corpus file. 

=back 

=item 0.17

Date : April 2, 2009 

=over

=item 1) 

Fixed AllWords.pm for window=2.  If it is the first word in a sentence and the window size is 2, 
we now consider a word at the right of the target word. Otherwise it will not be assigned any sense. 
In the previous version we were simply doing sense1 for such scenario. 

=item 2) 

Added a script calculate-corpus-stats.pl to utils/ which gives statistics of the reformatted corpus.  

=back 

=item 0.16

Date : March 16, 2009 

=over

=item 1) 

Fixed wsd.pl and the web interface output for multiword compounds ( for example, by_and_large).

=item 2) 

Punctuation fix for the raw format. If the format is raw and if the context contains words 
i.e. or el_al., then the period is not removed. 

=item 3) 

If format is raw and the context contains user identified compound words (for example St._Petersburg), 
then the punctuation is not removed. Please refer README for details. 

=item 4) 

Mapped Penn Treebank IN tag to WordNet 'r'(adverb) part of speech tag because most of the words in this
class have adverb sense in WordNet. 

=back 

=item 0.15

Date : February 14, 2009 

=over

=item 1)

Fixed the links of the default stoplist and nocompoundify option on the web interface.

=back

=item 0.14

Date : February 13, 2009

=over

=item 1)

Added allwords-scorer2.pl script for scoring. This script is modeled after score2 
C program (http://www.senseval.org/senseval3/scoring). scorer2 C program is no more 
used for scoring. 

=item 2)

Changed wsd.pl and the web interface output format. The output now displays the 
original text. For example, if the input text is 'parking_ticket#n are#v expensive#a'
then the output will be 'parking_tickets#n#1 are#v#1 expensive#a#1'. 
Modified t/wsd.t for this change. 

=item 3)

Removed config file option from the web interface

=item 4)

Added --nocompoundify option in wsd.pl and the web interface 

=item 5)

Modified the default stoplist used by the web interface 
(web/cgi-bin/allwords/user_data/default-stoplist-raw.txt) and replicated it to 
samples/default-stoplist-raw.txt to be used by wsd.pl. 

=item 6)

Fixed the ForcePos option on the webinterface.

=item 7)

Fixed the web interface crash when the user didn't provide any stoplist

=item 8)

Modified scorer2-format.pl to skip the entries where no sense is assigned. 

=item 9)

--scorer2 option is no more provided in wsd-experiments.pl and the script calls 
utils/allwords-scorer2.pl.

=back

=item 0.13

Date : January 22, 2009 

=over

=item 1)

Setup for wsd.pl experiments. Added 2 scripts scorer2-sort.pl and 
wsd-experiments.pl. scorer2-sort.pl sorts the output of scorer2-format.pl 
so that it can be used as input to the Senseval scorer2 program.
wsd-experiments.pl runs wsd experiments. 

=item 2)

Documentation changes in wsd.pl, scorer2-format.pl, semcor-reformat.pl.

=item 3)

Makefile changes to install newly added perl scripts. 

=back

=item 0.12

Date : November 03, 2008 

=over

=item 1)

Fixed client server model for the web interface. The allwords
server can run on a different machine, from where your web 
server is running.

=item 2)

User data is now stored on the client machine so that it is 
easily accessible to the user.

=item 3)

Added a mandatory --logfile parameter alomg with other optional 
parameters to allwords_server.pl

=item 4)

Removed --outfile option from wsd.pl and added --glosses options 
to display glosses

=item 5) 

Moved default-stoplist-raw.txt from 
WordNet-SenseRelate-AllWords/web/cgi-bin/allwords to
/WordNet-SenseRelate-AllWords/web/cgi-bin/allwords/user_data

=back

=item 0.11

Date : June 17, 2008 

=over

=item 1)

Removed compounding logic from AllWords.pm. Compounding is now
done using WordNet::Tools compoundify. The clients, wsd.pl and 
allwords_server.pl don't call compoundify any more. They creat 
WordNet::Tools object and pass it as a parameter while creating 
AllWords object.

=item 2)

Moved sentence splitter from wsd.pl to a util program, 
sentence_split.pl. All input formats will now assume that input 
is one sentence per line, one line per sentence. 

=item 3)

Removed parsed format test case from t/wsd.t

=item 4)

Context was considered as a single line if more than one line 
was entered in the textarea on the web interface.
Now the input is considered as one sentence per line, one line 
per sentence.

=back


=item 0.10

Date : May 29, 2008 

=over

=item 1)

Added proper error messages for the words which are ignored 
during disambiguation. A suffix is attached to the word in 
order to indicate why it is ignored for disambiguation.
For example, the word 'the' is not defined in WordNet and
hence is ignored. We attach the#ND to indicate that this 
word is not defined in WordNet

=item 2)

Added context file and config file option to the Web 
interface

=item 3)

Removed --compounds option from wsd.pl as we decided to 
use centralized compoundify module WordNet::Tools

=item 4)

Added compoundify in wsd.pl. This is done using the 
centralized WordNet::Tools module

=item 5)

Removed WordNet::SenseRelate dependency of the Web interface. 
Now compoundifying is done using WordNet::Tools

=back

=item 0.09

Date : April 10, 2008 (all changes by TDP)

=over

=item 1)

Modified test cases further to check for WordNet version using 
WordNet::Tools. Changes introduced in 0.08 testing were based on 
WordNet::QueryData's deprecated version test. Now skip all tests 
if we don't find version 2.0, 2.1, or 3.0, and introduce version
specific tests within those as needed (if results change from
one version of WordNet to the next). 

=item 2)

Added reference to Jason Michelizzi's MS thesis, which gives many 
details about the AllWords approach, plus experimental results

=back

=item 0.08

Date : March 20, 2008 (all changes by TDP)

=over

=item 1)

Fixed bug in AllWords.pm that caused disambiguate to fail when window 
not specified. we now default to window size 3.

=item 2)

Fixed synopsis in AllWords.pm to provide a cut and paste program that 
should run

=item 3)

Modified Makefile.PL to allow for use of 'make dist' and create META.yml

=item 4)

Changed release procedure, now using 'make dist' in order to avoid CVS 
export, and also create a directory that unpacks with a version number.

=back 

=item 0.07 

Date : March 17, 2008

=over

=item 1) 

Added web interface support for AllWords (see /web for details) (vk)

=item 2)

Updated version information in AllWords.pm to 0.07 (vk)

=item 3)

changed Changes file to CHANGES.pod (tdp)

=item 4)

added INSTALL.pod to /web (tdp)

=item 5)

updated version, copyright, and author info in README.pod (tdp)

=back

=item 0.06

Thu May 19 14:06:10 2005 (all changes by JM)

=over

=item 1)

added fixed mode

=back

=item 0.05

Mon May 02 16:12:36 2005 (all changes by JM)

=over

=item 1)

changed definition of context window to be total number of words

=item 2)

cleaned up errors in documentation

=item 3)

renamed reformat-for-senseval.pl as scorer2-format.pl

=item 4)

added command-line help to scorer2-format.pl and semcor-reformat.pl and expanded documentation

=item 5)

changed the compound-finding function so that only collocations of 
length MAX_COMPOUND_LENGTH or less are considered.           
MAX_COMPOUND_LENGTH is a constant defined in AllWords.pm.

=item 6)

added new wntagged format

=back

=item 0.04

Tue Apr 12 10:40:48 2005 (all changes by JM)

=over

=item 1)

fixed serious bug that often prevented higher numbered senses of target 
words from being considered

=item 2)

fixed errors in wsd.pl when --format is omitted

=item 3)

added diagnostic messages when stoplist is malformed

=item 4)

fixed bug in windowing that prevented window from expanding under 
certain circumstances

=item 5)

added new traces levels for displaying semantic relatedness scores and 
making ouput of zero values optional

=item 6)

fixed bug where sense1 and random schemes would fail when used 
with a stoplist or tagged text 

=item 7)

clarified description of window in documentation

=item 8)

added sample stoplist

=item 9)

suppress irrelevant configuration information when wsd.pl is run under 
sense1 or random

=item 10)

updated test scripts to reflect recent changes

=item 11)

renamed as WordNet::SenseRelate::AllWords

=back

=item 0.03

Fri Mar 11 15:25:18 2005 (all changes by JM)

=over

=item 1)

added scripts for converting semcor files and formatting the output for 
Senseval

=item 2)

added another test script

=item 3)

changed the input format(s) to wsd.pl

=item 4)

expanded documentation

=back

=item 0.02

Mon Jan 17 10:01:00 2005 (all changes by JM)

=over

=item 1)

added part of speech coercion option

=item 2)

expanded discussions in README

=back

=item 0.01

Wed Nov  3 12:52:33 2004 (all changes by JM)

=over

=item 1)

original version; created by h2xs 1.23 with options 
-n WordNet::SenseRelate -X -b 5.6.0

=back

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

 Varada Kolhatkar, University of Minnesota, Duluth
 kolha002 at d.umn.edu

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth
 tpederse at d.umn.edu

This document last modified by :
$Id: CHANGES.pod,v 1.23 2009/05/27 21:18:12 kvarada Exp $

=head1 SEE ALSO

README, INSTALL, TODO

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
Copyright (c) 2008, Varada Kolhatkar, Ted Pedersen, Jason Michelizzi

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
Texts.

Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on
the web at L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in
this distribution as FDL.txt.

=cut

