=head1 NAME

INSTALL - Installation instructions for WordNet::SenseRelate::AllWords

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Dependencies

Three modules are required by WordNet::SenseRelate::AllWords:

    WordNet::QueryData
    WordNet::Similarity
    WordNet::Tools

Both modules are available from CPAN.

This module also requires that WordNet be installed.  WordNet is a
machine-readable dictionary and can be downloaded from
http://cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn/.

=head2 Detailed Installation Instructions

Before installing this library, the dependencies listed above must
first be resolved.

If you have superuser (root) access, you should be able to install
WordNet::SenseRelate::AllWords by following these simple steps:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test  # optional, but recommended
    su         # or sudo, as the case may be
    make install

If you need to install this distribution in your local user account
because you lack superuser privileges, then the recommended method
on Unix-like systems (Linux, Solaris, Cygwin) is as follows:

    perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=~/senserelate LIB=~/lib
    make
    make test
    make install

This will install the executable scripts into ~/senserelate/bin, the
man pages in ~/senserelate/man, and the libraries into ~/lib.  You
will need to set your PERL5LIB variable to point to the LIB directory.

In bash:

    export PERL5LIB=~/lib

In csh or tcsh:

    setenv PERL5LIB ~/lib

Add these lines to your .bashrc, .bash_profile, or .cshrc files as the
case may be.

=head1 AUTHORS

 Varada Kolhatkar, University of Minnesota, Duluth
 kolha002 at d.umn.edu

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth
 tpederse at d.umn.edu

This document last modified by :
$Id: INSTALL.pod,v 1.4 2009/02/13 15:47:18 kvarada Exp $

=head1 SEE ALSO

 L<README> L<CHANGES> 

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2008, Varada Kolhatkar, Ted Pedersen, Jason Michelizzi

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
Texts.

Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on
the web at L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in
this distribution as FDL.txt.

=cut

