=head1 NAME

TODO - Todo list for WordNet::SenseRelate::AllWords

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Plans for future versions of AllWords, including AllWords.pm, wsd.pl
driver, and web interface.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 For version 0.20

=over

=item 1)

Add config file option to the web interface so that it would be able
to handle the files specified in the configuration file ( for example, 
stoplist file path specified in the configuration file). This is not 
provided now because the client-server model of the web interface makes
it hard to handle such paths on the server machine. 

=item 2)

Add logging for AllWords.pm. We log allwords_server.pl. However
we don't log AllWords.pm, which makes it difficult for debugging if
something goes wrong in the core algorithm.

=item 3)

Store error code and error message in AllWords object which will
be useful in AllWords clients, that is allwords_server.pl and
wsd.pl.
We can check for those errors and take appropriate actions in the
client code.

=item 4)

Had a number of reported test failures in 0.08 due to WordNet version
issues. Need to add version checks to test cases to avoid this. These 
tests should use WordNet::Tools, not the deprecated version() method in
QueryData.

=item 5)

Expanding set of POS tags that can be used, either by modifying
AllWords.pm or allowing user to submit a config file of some kind
defining the tag set. At present limited to Penn TreeBank set of 47
tags.

=item 6)

Return codes that identifies trace level (to enable color coding).

=item 7)

Graceful shutdown and restart of web server. Allow for a stop or restart
command from the command line, rather than having to kill the process.

=item 8)

Make a design decision about whether web interface should communicate
directly with AllWords.pm via disambiguation method, or should use
wsd.pl command.

=item 9)

Develop methods for testing web interface, or at least directly testing
disambiguate method as used by web interface. Should have test cases
that can be run to demonstrate problems as listed here, and also make
sure that once they are fixed they stay fixed.

=item 10)

Expand the testing in /t for AllWords.pm and wsd.pl. Right now it's
quite minimal, and has very limited coverage. We should have multiple .t
files, organized in some way to indicate what kind of testing we are
doing, maybe based on format and then options being used, as in tagged.t
for testing pos tagged data, wntagged.t for wordnet tagged data, raw.t
or plain.t for that format, and so there. There is no reason that the
testing be confined to one file per module or program as it is now.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

 Varada Kolhatkar, University of Minnesota, Duluth
 kolha002 at d.umn.edu

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth
 tpederse at d.umn.edu

This document last modified by : 
$Id: TODO.pod,v 1.15 2009/05/27 21:10:49 kvarada Exp $ 

=head1 SEE ALSO

CHANGES, README, INSTALL

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2008, Varada Kolhatkar, Ted Pedersen, Jason Michelizzi

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
Texts.

Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on
the web at L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in
this distribution as FDL.txt.

=cut
