package Silki::Manual::Devel;

# ABSTRACT: Hack on Silki



=pod

=head1 NAME

Silki::Manual::Devel - Hack on Silki

=head1 VERSION

version 0.29

=head1 POSTGRES

In order to hack on Silki, you'll need to make sure that you can connect to
Postgres without a username or password as yourself, and that you can create
and drop databases.

In the future, this requirement may change, and patches are certainly welcome.

=head1 PERL MODULES

You'll need to install several additional prereqs, including
L<Catalyst::Devel>, L<Catalyst::Plugin::Static::Simple>, and
L<Catalyst::Plugin::StackTrace>.

Silki uses L<Dist::Zilla> to build the distribution. Unless you are planning
on hacking on the release tool portion of Silki, you won't need this, but
installing it may be useful. You'll also need a number of dzil plugins.

=head1 DEV SCRIPTS

The Silki distribution includes a number of tools that are useful for
development:

=over 4

=item * F<bin/silki_server.pl>

This runs a standalone server for Silki. This is very handy for development.

You can make it auto-restart when relevant files change. Here's the best
command to do this:

  bin/silki_server.pl -r \
    --restart_directory lib \
    --restart_directory share/i18n \
    -rr (?:\/|^)(?!\.\#).+(?:\.pm|\.po)$ \
    -d

=item * F<dev-bin/extract-po>

This extracts strings which need localization. If you're just using English,
you don't need to extract new strings immediately. By default, the English
string is used as both the msgid I<and> the translation of that string in
English.

=item * F<dev-bin/manage-db>

This rebuilds the Silki schema and optionally populates it with some initial
users and wikis. Run it with the C<--help> flag to see options. If you want to
drop the existing schema you'll have to pass the C<--drop> flag.

Typically, you'll run it like this:

  > dev-bin/manage-db --db-name Silki --drop --seed

Be careful not to run this on a system where you have a production install of
Silki! You could easily destroy a real database.

=item * F<dev-bin/make-test-schema>

Some of the tests create a L<Fey::Schema> object without talking to
Postgres. This is faster than using L<Fey::Loader>. This is done by using
Storable to store a copy of the schema in a file. You can regenerate the
serialized schema by running this command.

=item * F<dev-bin/populate-db>

This inserts a whole bunch of pages into the database. This script could be
improved to add more variations in the data, more user, revisions, etc.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Dave Rolsky <autarch@urth.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2011 by Dave Rolsky.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The GNU Affero General Public License, Version 3, November 2007

=cut


__END__

