=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

HTML::FromMail::Head - output a message header as HTML

=head1 INHERITANCE

 HTML::FromMail::Head
   is a HTML::FromMail::Page
   is a HTML::FromMail::Object
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in HTML::FromMail::Page|HTML::FromMail::Page/"DESCRIPTION">.

=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in HTML::FromMail::Page|HTML::FromMail::Page/"METHODS">.

=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in HTML::FromMail::Page|HTML::FromMail::Page/"Constructors">.

=over 4

=item $class-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

Z<>

 -Option  --Defined in            --Default
  settings  HTML::FromMail::Object  {}
  topic     HTML::FromMail::Object  'head'

=over 2

=item settings => \%map

=item topic => STRING

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

Extends L<"Attributes" in HTML::FromMail::Page|HTML::FromMail::Page/"Attributes">.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<settings>( [TOPIC] )

Inherited, see L<HTML::FromMail::Object/"Attributes">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<topic>()

Inherited, see L<HTML::FromMail::Object/"Attributes">

=back

=head2 Other methods

Extends L<"Other methods" in HTML::FromMail::Page|HTML::FromMail::Page/"Other methods">.

=over 4

=item $any-E<gt>B<fields>($message, %options)

Collect information about the header fields.

 -Option              --Default
  ignore                undef
  remove_list_group     true
  remove_resent_groups  true
  remove_spam_groups    true
  select                ''

=over 2

=item ignore => $exclude

The reverse of C<select>: patterns listing which fields not to take.

=item remove_list_group => BOOLEAN

Do not select the headers which are added by mailing list software.
See Mail::Message::Head::ListGroup.

=item remove_resent_groups => BOOLEAN

Remove all the lines which are related to transport of the message, for
instance the C<Received> and C<Return-Path>, and all lines which start
with C<Resent->.  See Mail::Message::Head::ResentGroup.

=item remove_spam_groups => BOOLEAN

Do not select headers which were added by spam fighting software.  See
Mail::Message::Head::SpamGroup.

=item select => $patterns

Select only the fields which match the C<$patterns>.  Multiple patterns can
be specified separated by vertical bars (I<pipes>).  The fields returned
are ordered as specified.

See Mail::Message::Head::Complete subroutine grepNames.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<lookup>($label, \%options)

Inherited, see L<HTML::FromMail::Page/"Other methods">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<plain2html>(STRING)

Inherited, see L<HTML::FromMail::Object/"Other methods">

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of HTML-FromMail version 4.00,
built on December 11, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

For contributors see file ChangeLog.

This software is copyright (c) 2003-2025 by Mark Overmeer.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

