=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

HTML::FromMail::Object - base-class for convertable items

=head1 INHERITANCE

 HTML::FromMail::Object
   is a Mail::Reporter

 HTML::FromMail::Object is extended by
   HTML::FromMail::Page

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item $class-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

Z<>

 -Option  --Default
  settings  {}
  topic     <required>

=over 2

=item settings => \%map

Contains the special settings for each of the topics.  This expects a C<%map>
from topic names to configuration HASHes.
See L<HTML::FromMail::new(settings)|HTML::FromMail/"Constructors">.

=item topic => STRING

A symbolic representation of the group of objects which can be handled
by the producer.  Each extension of this base class will set a value for
this option, so you will usually not specify this yourself.

The topic is used to get the right default settings and templates.  See
L<HTML::FromMail::new(settings)|HTML::FromMail/"Constructors"> and L<HTML::FromMail::new(templates)|HTML::FromMail/"Constructors">.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<settings>( [TOPIC] )

Returns the settings for objects with a certain C<TOPIC>, by default
for objects of the current.  An empty hash will be returned when
not settings where specified.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<topic>()

Returns the abstract topic of the producer.

=back

=head2 Other methods

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<plain2html>(STRING)

Convert a C<STRING> into HTML.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of HTML-FromMail version 3.01,
built on November 21, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

For contributors see file ChangeLog.

This software is copyright (c) 2003-2025 by Mark Overmeer.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

