=head1 NAME

App::TimelogTxt::Manual - Overview of the L<App::TimelogTxt> modules and
C<timelog> application.

=head1 VERSION

This manual applies to L<App::TimelogTxt> version 0.22.

=head1 INTRODUCTION

In a job a long time ago, I found that I would regularly reach the end of a
long, tiring day and have no idea what I had done. Just as regularly, I found
that my most important projects were not progressing very rapidly. Many people
find themselves in the same position. I decided to do something about it, I
found an application on the Palm that tracked Clients, Projects, and Tasks (as
well as mileage and expenses) called TEAK.

I started tracking everything I did at work. After a few days, I had identified
many of the interruptions that prevented me from making progress. I had also
noted that some of my busiest, yet least productive days were almost all
interruptions. I used this information to improve my work and to keep people
updated with why my various projects were not progressing as expected. When I
needed to make faster progress, I had the data to help my manager redirect the
worst of the interruptions.

=head2 The Need for Change

This was wonderful. Unfortunately, the Palm platform did not survive in the
market. I continued to keep my Palm functional partially to use TEAK. But, I
eventually had to admit that I could not rely on my Palm to continue. By this
time I had an Android smart phone and I figured it would be pretty easy to find
something to replace TEAK. No such luck.

I had been using Gina Trapani's Todo.txt program for a while at this point.
It's main feature is the simplicity of its file format:

=over 4

=item * 

One entry per line

=item *

pure text

=item *

minimal formatting

=back

I decided that this would be a better basis for a new time logging program than
some binary format. So I wrote a quickie Perl script to allow me to start and
stop task timers and to generate simple reports.

As I used the program, I found other commands and reports that could be useful.
In the end, it was obvious that this tool needed to be cleaned up a re-written.
This module is the result of that rewrite.

=head1 The C<timelog> Program

The C<timelog> program is how you manipulate your time log and generate
reports. The program is executed with a command and optional arguments.

=head1 Supported Commands

The C<timelog> program supports a number of commands that manipulate or report
on the time logged by the program.

=head2 Adding Events

The commands you will use the most involve adding events to the time log. The
string C<{event description}> is a text string that may have a I<+project> and/or
a I<@task>. The first string of non-whitespace characters beginning with a 'C<+>'
is treated as the I<project> for this event. The project is only relevant when
using the reporting commands. Likewise, the first string of non-whitespace
characters beginning with a 'C<@>' is treated as a task.

If an event has no task, the non-project part of the event is treated as the
task. Otherwise, the non-project, non-task part of the event is treated as
detail information for the event.

=over 4

=item  start {event description}
     
Stop the current event and start timing a new event. Since C<timelog> only
tracks one event at a time, the current event is always stopped when starting
a new event.

=item stop

Stop timing the current event.

=item push {event description}

Save the current event on stack and start timing new event. The current event
is saved in the stack file in the timelog directory. You can manipulate the
saved event with B<pop> or B<drop>.

=item pop

Stop the current event and restart top event on stack. This also removes the
event from the stack.

=item drop [all|{n}]

Drop one or more events from top of event stack. If no arguments are supplied,
only the top item is dropped. If the argument is a number, that number of
events is dropped from the stack. If the argument I<all> is supplied, the stack
is cleared.

=back

=head2 Reporting

The reporting commands generate a report of information from the timelog files.
Many of these commands accept a I<date> or pair of I<date>s. The date is
normally expected to be of the form C<YYYY-MM-DD>. However, a small number
of shortcuts are also allowed.

The strings 'I<today>' and 'I<yesterday>' resolve to the obvious date. The days
of the week are also allowed, each resolves to that day of the week prior to the
current day. If the current day is Wednesday, I<monday> resolves to two days ago,
and I<thursday> resolves to six days ago.

Any time you supply a pair of dates, the second must be later in time than the
first.

The reporting commands are:

=over 4

=item hours [date [end date]]

Display the hours worked for each of the appropriate days.

=item ls [date]

List events for the specified day. Default to today.

=item lsproj

List known projects, one per line.

=item lstk

Display items on the stack. The top event on the stack is the one that is
resumed by the B<pop> command.

=item report [date [end date]]

Display a report for the specified days.

This report is grouped by day, with each project grouped under the day.
Each event for a project is displayed under the project. Accumulated times are
displayed for each project and day.

=item summary [date [end date]]

Display a summary of the appropriate days' projects.

For each day, the list of projects active during that day is shown along with
the aggregate time spent on that project.

=back

=head2 Other Commands

The remaining commands do not necessarily fit into one of the other categories.

=over 4

=item init [dir]

Prepare the system for use with C<timelog>. First, it creates the directory
where timelog stores its information, if that directory does not already exist.
Then, the command creates and initializes the F<.timelogrc> configuration file,
in the user's home directory, with the information needed to run.

=item edit

Open the timelog file in the current editor. The editor can be specified in the
configuration file. If no editor is specified in the configuration, the program
uses the value of the C<VISUAL> environment variable. If C<VISUAL> has no value,
then the value of C<EDITOR> is used instead. If neither environment variable has
a value, then the program defaults to C<vim>

=item shell
     
Execute commands as entered until quit.

This command starts an interactive mode where each line typed is a new command
to C<timelog>. Each string entered is just like the C<timelog> command line,
without the program name.

This mode continues in effect until you enter the string C<quit> on a line by
itself.

=item hint [command|alias]

A list of commands and/or aliases. The I<hint> command is mostly intended as a
quick syntax or command name reminder.

With no arguments, you get a list of the commands and aliases, one per line.
The commands are listed with simple usage information. Each alias is listed
with its definition.

Calling I<hint> with an argument of 'I<commands>' lists the hint information
for just the commands. Calling I<hint> with an argument of 'I<aliases>' lists
the hint information for just the aliases.

Any other argument is looked up in the command list and then the alias list and
the first matching item is displayed.

=item help [command|alias]

Display help about commands and/or aliases. The I<help> command gives more
detailed help about the command or alias.

With no arguments, you get a list of the commands and aliases, each with its
associated help text. The commands are each listed as a usage line with some
explanatory text. Each alias is listed with its definition.

Calling I<help> with an argument of 'I<commands>' lists the help information
for just the commands. Calling I<help> with an argument of 'I<aliases>' lists
the help information for just the aliases.

Any other argument is looked up in the command list and then the alias list and
the first matching item is displayed.

=back

=head1 Configuration

The C<timelog> program uses the file F<~/.timelogrc> if it exists.

The configuration file is expected to contain data in two major parts:

=head2 General Configuration

The first section defined general configuration information in a key=value
format. The recognized keys are:

=over 4

=item editor

The editor to use when opening the timelog file with the C<edit> command.
If not specified, it will use the value of either the VISUAL or EDITOR
environment variables. If non are found, it will default to C<vim>.

=item dir

The directory in which to find the timelog data files. Defaults to the
C<timelog> directory in the user's home directory.

=item defcmd

The default command to by used if none is supplied to timelog. By default,
this is the 'B<stop>' command.

=back

=head2 Command Aliases

The configuration file may also contain an 'C<[alias]>' section that defines
command aliases. Each alias is defined as a C<shortname=expanded string>.

For example, if you regularly need to make entries for reading email and
triaging bug reports you might want the following in your configuration.

  [alias]
    email = start +Misc @Email
    triage = start +BugTracker @Triage

=head1 AUTHOR

G. Wade Johnson  C<< <gwadej@cpan.org> >>

=head1 LICENCE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2013, G. Wade Johnson C<< <gwadej@cpan.org> >>. All rights reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself. See L<perlartistic>.

