=head1 NAME

App::TimelogTxt::Tutorial - Describe normal use of the C<timelog> application.

=head1 VERSION

This tutorial applies to L<App::TimelogTxt> version 0.22.

=head1 Getting Started

To use the C<timelog> program, you need a directory where C<timelog> stores its
log files. This directory may be specified in the F<.timelogrc> configuration
file in your home directory. If that file does not exist, the program defaults
to the F<timelog> directory in your home directory.

You can use the B<init> command to set up the configuration file and directory
for you. If the default configuration is satisfactory, just run the following
command:

  $ timelog init

If you would like to change the directory where the logs are stored, supply
that directory path as an argument to the B<init> command.

  $ timelog init ~/my_timelog

=head1 Example Usage

In this example, we will see most of the C<timelog> commands you would use in a
normal day. The B<start> and B<stop> commands are the minimum that you would
need. To begin tracking a task, you use the B<start> command and supply text to
describe the task you are beginning. The C<timelog> software assumes that you
are only working a single thing at a time. I originally tried to support the
ability to track more than one task at a time and found that I never actually
used it.

Let's walk through an example. Assume that it's just after lunch and you want
to take care of your email before your team meeting at 1pm. At 10 minutes to 1,
you start a task I<Email> in the I<Admin> project.

   $ timelog start +Admin @Email

Any group of non-whitespace characters beginning with 'C<+>' is considered the
project. If there is an string of non-whitespace characters beginning with
'C<@>', it is treated as the task. Any other text is explanatory details.

At 1pm, the conference call with your team is going to begin. You start that
task. Since we are going to be talking about the C<Foo> project, note that in
the command.

   $ timelog start +Foo @ConfCall Team Meeting

The meeting is over and you need to change tasks. During the meeting, you
agreed to do some general work on the manual for the project's software. Enter
the task to begin working on that.

   $ timelog start +Foo @Docs working on manual

We are in the same project, so C<timelog> will be able to report the cumulative
total of the last two tasks. About 20 minutes after you start on the manual,
Sue comes by to ask about the project you were working on last week. Since this
is will be a temporary interruption, we use the B<push> command. It saves the
current task, so that we can restore it when the interruption is over.

   $ timelog push +Bar @Help Sue questions

When all of Sue's questions are answered, you want to go back to the manual
work.

   $ timelog pop

The B<pop> command restores the task that was current when the last B<push>
command was executed. This way you don't need to type in the whole command (or
up-arrow through your command history), for short interruptions.

A while later, you've finished with the manual for today and want to finish up
the work on the database module for the I<Foo> project.

   $ timelog start +Foo @Code database module

You get some good uninterrupted time on this and finish up the module in time
to stop at 5.

   $ timelog stop

As you can see, this requires the addition of a bit more to your daily work
flow. Later in the manual we will cover a few features that can reduce your
typing. The main benefit of all of this work though is the ability to generate
reports of your work.

=head2 Reports

The most detailed report you might do is to list all of the events for a given
day. If you executed the following command the day after the example above, you
would get a list of the tasks for that day.

   $ timelog ls yesterday

The output of this command (assuming only the commands from the example) would
look like this:

    2013-07-01 12:50:02 +Admin @Email
    2013-07-01 13:00:21 +Foo @ConfCall Team Meeting
    2013-07-01 14:02:43 +Foo @Docs working on manual
    2013-07-01 14:22:03 +Bar @Help Sue questions
    2013-07-01 14:27:06 +Foo @Docs working on manual
    2013-07-01 15:10:20 +Foo @Code database module
    2013-07-01 17:00:24 stop

This is the most detailed report, but it isn't really useful for much. Usually,
you want some form of summarized information. The other reporting commands take
care of that.

=head3 Detail Report

The report I use the most looks like the following:

   $ timelog report yesterday

This report shows the data for the given date grouped by project. Although the
actual times are missing and the data is re-ordered, you can get a really good
sense of where your time went with this report.

    2013-07-01  4:10
      Admin         0:10
          Email                0:10
      Bar           0:05
          Help                 0:05 (Sue questions)
      Foo           3:55
          Code                 1:50 (database module)
          Docs                 1:03 (working on manual)
          ConfCall             1:02 (Team Meeting)

=head3 Summary Report

Sometimes, the normal report is still too much data. Let's say I only care
about the aggregate amount of time spent on each project. I would then use the
following command:

   $ timelog summary yesterday

This report has no task information, it just reports the time on each project
for the day.

    2013-07-01  4:10
      Admin         0:10
      Bar           0:05
      Foo           3:55

=head3 Hours Report

Finally, you may only want the amount of time you spent for the whole day. That
report is generated by the following command:

   $ timelog hours yesterday

This just tells how long you were working. Sometimes it is all you need.

    2013-07-01  4:10

=head1 Simplifying Usage with Aliases

As you use the C<timelog> program more, typing long strings for individual
events becomes annoying. If you are working on the same projects or tasks on a
regular basis, you might find typing the detail annoying even if you want it
for reporting.

The C<timelog> program supports defining aliases in your F<.timelogrc> file.
These aliases can be either full events or partial events. These aliases
are defined in a C<[alias]> section in your F<.timelogrc> file. They take the
following form:

   email = start +Misc @Email
   proja = start +ProjectA
   int   = push +Misc @Questions

When C<timelog> encounters an alias at the beginning of its command line, it
replaces the alias with the string after the equals. This allows you to define
full events or partial events easily. To use an alias, use the alias as the
command when calling C<timelog>:

   $ timelog email

This gets converted to

   $ timelog start +Misc @Email

The I<proja> alias above is a good example of a partial event. You would use
the alias like:

   $ timelog proja @ConfCall Client design team

which would be converted to

   $ timelog start +ProjectA @ConfCall Client design team

Over time, I often find myself adding new aliases for events relating to new
projects and deleting aliases that I no longer use.

=head1 AUTHOR

G. Wade Johnson  C<< <gwadej@cpan.org> >>

=head1 LICENCE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2013, G. Wade Johnson C<< <gwadej@cpan.org> >>. All rights reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself. See L<perlartistic>.
