
=head1 NAME

Net::ENUM - E.164 NUmber Mapping



=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Net::ENUM;

  my $net_enum = Net::ENUM->new(
    { udp_timeout => 5, ... }
  );

  # returns contact of first NAPTR entry (after sorting by 'order') the RegEx
  # is already done!
  my $contact_1 = $net_enum->get_enum_address( '+123 456-789' );
  # or with vanity
  my $contact_1 = $net_enum->get_enum_address( '+1 ad ilm-puz' );

  # the same as above, but get the first 'sip' entry
  my $contact_2 = $net_enum->get_enum_address( '+123 456-789', 'order', 'sip' );

  # returns an array with all NAPTR entries (each a hash) sorted by 'name'
  my @contact_array = $net_enum->get_enum_address( '+123 456-789', 'name' );
  
  # error output
  if ( $net_enum->{'enum_error'} ) {
    print $net_enum->{'enum_error'};
  }
  else {
    # if there is a second entry in the array ([1]) this will print:
    # 9.8.7.6.5.4.3.2.1.e164.arpa
    print $contact_array[1]->{'name'};
  }



=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is used to get the wanted NAPTR or Internet address of a given ENUM.

It can also be used to get nameservers (NS) of a domain, transform a phone
number into a e164.arpa-domain and to translate a vanity into a phone number.



=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=over 4

=item new ( [ ARGS, VANITY ] )

This creates a new Net::ENUM object.

ARGS is a hashref. Its keys and values are the same as %args of
L<Net::DNS::Resolver>->new(%args). ARGS can overwrite Net::ENUM default values!

VANITY is a hashref. The keys are the letters and their values are the
corresponding numbers. Example (default): { 'abc' => 2, 'def' => 3, ...,
'wxyz' => 9 }. If the hashref is empty no vanity translation will be done. If
VANITY is undefined the default/standard vanity will be used.

=back



=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item get_enum_address ( NUMBER [ , SORTBY, MEDIA ] )

NUMBER is a qualified international phone number (can have vanity) starting with '+'.

SORTBY sorts NAPTR based on this attribute, defaults to 'order' (= lowest to
highest order, for same order lowest preference first).

MEDIA is the NAPTR media to return ('sip', 'tel', 'email', ...), defaults to
return all types.

Return:

=over 4

=item *

If an array is wanted it returns an array with all sorted NAPTR entries, each
one in a hash. Keys in the hash are:
flags, ttl ,name, service, rdata, preference, rdlength, regexp, order, type,
class, replacement

=item *

If a string is wanted it returns a string with the Internet protocol address of
the first NAPTR entry (after sorting and selecting media). The RegEx was applied
on the NUMBER.

=item *

<undef> on error/if no entry was found. The error message is stored
in $self->{'enum_error'}.

=back



=item get_nameservers ( DOMAIN )

DOMAIN must be a full qualified domain. In our case it should look like:
9.8.7.6.5.4.3.2.1.e164.arpa

Return:

=over 4

=item *

An arrayref with nameservers found for this domain.

=item *

<undef> if no nameserver was found. The returned error message is stored
in $self->{'enum_error'}.

=back



=item number_to_domain ( NUMBER )

NUMBER can be a phone number in format: +123 456-789, +1ad ilm-puz or a
e164.arpa domain.

Return:

=over 4

=item *

The e164.arpa domain of NUMBER. In our example:
9.8.7.6.5.4.3.2.1.e164.arpa

=item *

<undef> on error. The error message is stored in $self->{'enum_error'}.

=back



=item translate_vanity ( NUMBER )

NUMBER is a phone number with or without vanity. Examples: +123 456-789,
+1ad ilm-puz. All letters from /a-z/i (default) will be translated into
their corresponding numbers. Modifying the hashref $self->{'vanity'} modifies
the translation (see also L</CONSTRUCTOR>).

Return:

=over 4

=item *

The NUMBER is translated in place, so you really don't need a return value. In
case NUMBER was a string and not a scalar this function also returns the
translated NUMBER.

=back

=back



=head1 PREREQUISITES

This module requires the C<strict> and the C<Net::DNS> module to work.



=head1 SEE ALSO

L<perl(1)>, L<Net::DNS>, L<Net::DNS::Resolver>



=head1 COPYRIGHT

This module is Copyright (C) 2010 by Detlef Pilzecker.

All Rights Reserved.

This module is free software. It may be used, redistributed and/or modified
under the same terms as Perl itself.

