=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Net::Domain::TMCH::CRL - TMCH Certificates Revokation List

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Net::Domain::TMCH::CRL
   is a Exporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # End-user interface

  my $tmch = Net::Domain::TMCH->new
    ( ...
    , cert_revocations => $fn    # or $uri
    );
  $crl = $tmch->crl;

  # create explicitly

  my $crl  = Net::Domain::TMCH::CRL->fromFile($fn, %options);
  my $crl  = Net::Domain::TMCH::CRL->fromURI($uri, %options);
  my $crl  = Net::Domain::TMCH::CRL->new(source => 'hardcoded'
    , revoked => \@serials);
  my $tmch = Net::Domain::TMCH->new(..., cert_revocations => $crl);

  if($crl->isRevoked($certificate)) ...
  if($crl->isRevoked($certificate->serial)) ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Draft RFC L<http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-lozano-tmch-func-07>
specifies a way for TLD (domain registries) to exchange trademark rights
(brand registrations).  This module manages the revocation list for TMV
(Trademark Validator) certificates.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fromFile>($filename, %options)

Read a CRL from file, for instance a cached or test CRL.
The %options are passed to L<new()|Net::Domain::TMCH::CRL/"Constructors">.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fromString>(STRING, %options)

Read a CRL from STRING, for instance a cached or test CRL.
The %options are passed to L<new()|Net::Domain::TMCH::CRL/"Constructors">.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fromURI>($uri, %options)

Create a new CRL object from an $uri, which is collected via LWP.  The
%options are passed to L<new()|Net::Domain::TMCH::CRL/"Constructors">.

=item Net::Domain::TMCH::CRL-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option --Default
  revoked  []
  source   <required>

=over 2

=item revoked => HASH|ARRAY

ARRAY of serial numbers from revoked certificates, or a HASH of which the
keys are the revoked serials.

=item source => STRING|FILENAME|URI

Identification for the source of this list, to be used in error message
and such.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<source>()

=back

=head2 Actions

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<isRevoked>($certificate|$serial)

Checks whether a $certificate (Crypt::OpenSSL::X509 object) has been
revoked.  It is sufficient to provide a $serial number of the certificate.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Net-Domain-TMCH distribution version 0.18,
built on December 30, 2015.  Development was supported by NIC.at, the Austrian
Domainname Registry.

 Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/net-domain-tmch/>

The documentation and interface style is consistent with a large set of
modules, belonging to the L<XML::Compile> suite.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2013-2015 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

