


=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

WWW::CheckGzip - check web pages for correct gzipping of content

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    
    # This example demonstrates use with the Test::More testing framework.
    use Test::More;
    use WWW::CheckGzip;
    my $wc = WWW::CheckGzip->new (\& mycheck);
    $wc->check ('http://www.piedpiper.com');
    done_testing ();
    exit;
    
    sub mycheck
    {
        my ($ok, $message) = @_;
        ok ($ok, $message);
    }


produces output

    ok 1 - successfully got compressed http://www.piedpiper.com
    ok 2 - got content encoding
    ok 3 - content encoding is gzip
    ok 4 - http://www.piedpiper.com correctly gzipped
    ok 5 - compression made it smaller
    ok 6 - successfully got uncompressed http://www.piedpiper.com
    ok 7 - Did not get content encoding
    ok 8 - http://www.piedpiper.com not gzipped when requesting ungzipped
    1..8


(This example is included as L<F<synopsis.pl>|https://fastapi.metacpan.org/source/BKB/WWW-CheckGzip-0.03/examples/synopsis.pl> in the distribution.)


=head1 VERSION

This documents version 0.03 of WWW::CheckGzip corresponding to
L<git commit 18f7c39b6111935af7a67f0f22ef172f30a2e88e|https://github.com/benkasminbullock/www-checkgzip/commit/18f7c39b6111935af7a67f0f22ef172f30a2e88e> released on Thu Aug 17 17:43:51 2017 +0900.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module offers a way to check a web page for correct gzip
compression. It tests the following, in the order given:

=over

=item Page OK with compression

The web page is retrievable with an Accept-Encoding header set.

If the page is not retrievable, L</check> calls the test callback,
then returns and does no further actions.

=item Header OK

When sent a request with an Accept-Encoding header containing the
string C<gzip>, the web page responds with a content encoding header.

=item Header is gzip

The content encoding header of the response is C<gzip>.

=item Content is in gzip format

The content of the web page's response is in the gzip format. This is
checked using L<Gzip::Faster/gunzip>.

=item Content is smaller

The size of the uncompressed content of the web page is larger than it
is when compressed. This test will fail, for example, if gzip encoding
is wrongly used to compress images or extremely small web pages.

=item Page OK without compression

The web page is retrievable without an Accept-Encoding header set.

=item Response has no gzip header

The web page does not send a gzip header if the Accept-Encoding header
is not set.

=item Content is not compressed

The web page does not gzip compress the content when Accept-Encoding
header is not sent. This is checked using L<Gzip::Faster/gunzip>.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

    my $wc = WWW::CheckGzip->new (\& test_sub);

Create a new object. The argument is a code reference to a subroutine
of your choosing. The subroutine should take two arguments, a boolean
C<$ok> indicating whether the test was successful, and a string
C<$message> containing a descriptive message about the test. See
L</SYNOPSIS> for an example using the L<Test::More> testing framework.

If you do not supply a function, a default function which prints the
results to standard output is used. The return value is a blessed
WWW::CheckGzip object.

=head2 check

    $wc->check ('http://www.hooli.xyz');

Check the URL given as the argument. The tests call the callback
supplied to L</new>. There is no return value. If no URL is supplied,
a warning is printed and the function returns.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

=over

=item L<Carp>

This is used to report user errors.

=item L<Gzip::Faster/gunzip>

This is used to test whether the page content is in the gzip format or not.

=item L<LWP::UserAgent>

This is used to retrieve the web page. However, this module
deliberately does not use the built in methods of libwww-perl such as
L<HTTP::Response/decoded_content>, but explicitly does its own testing
of the headers and the content returned.

=back

=head1 LIMITATIONS

=over

=item GET only

As of version 0.03, the module currently only does GET requests.

=back

=head1 SCRIPT

A script F<checkgzip> in the distribution checks web pages given to it
on the command line:

    checkgzip http://www.lemoda.net/

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head2 CPAN Modules

I'm not aware of any other module which explicitly checks for
gzip-related problems from a web page.

=over

=item L<WWW::Mechanize::GZip>

This module retrieves gzip content from web pages.

=back

=head2 Online gzip checkers

=over

=item L<http://www.computerhandlung.de/www-mechanize-gzip.htm>

By the author of L<WWW::Mechanize::GZip>.

=item L<http://www.whatsmyip.org/http-compression-test/>

Online AJAX checker with noises and colours.

=item L<https://varvy.com/tools/gzip/>

Another AJAX checker.

=item L<https://developers.google.com/speed/pagespeed/insights/>

Google PageSpeed Insights has compression checking as one of its
facilities. For whatever reason it doesn't actually tell you if the
page is compressed correctly, but only lets you know if there is a
problem.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

I created this module to have a simple command-line script or module
for checking that gzip compression of my own web pages was working
correctly.

On 6 March 2017, I suggested the module on PrePAN:
L<http://prepan.org/module/nYdTCdrkEGF>. Unfortunately it didn't get
any responses. Initially I was planning to fork
L</WWW::Mechanize::GZip>, and the old commits in the github repository
contain some code from that module.

On 16 August 2017 I completely rewrote the module to remove the
L</WWW::Mechanize::GZip> parts and released version 0.01 to CPAN. The
methodology the module currently uses is based on my web page:
L<https://www.lemoda.net/compression/lwp-use-gzip/index.html>.


=head1 AUTHOR

Ben Bullock, <bkb@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENCE

This package and associated files are copyright (C) 
2017
Ben Bullock.

You can use, copy, modify and redistribute this package and associated
files under the Perl Artistic Licence or the GNU General Public
Licence.



