=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::SOAP11 - SOAP 1.1 protocol

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::SOAP11 has extra code in
   XML::Compile::SOAP11::Encoding

 XML::Compile::SOAP11
   is a XML::Compile::SOAP

 XML::Compile::SOAP11 is extended by
   XML::Compile::SOAP11::Client
   XML::Compile::SOAP11::Server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # use either XML::Compile::SOAP11::Client or ::Server
 # See XML::Compile::SOAP for global usage examples.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module handles the SOAP protocol version 1.1.
See F<http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-SOAP-20000508/>).
The implementation tries to behave like described in
F<http://www.ws-i.org/Profiles/BasicProfile-1.0.html>

Two extensions are made: the SOAP11 client
L<XML::Compile::SOAP11::Client|XML::Compile::SOAP11::Client>.
and server in L<XML::Compile::SOAP11::Server|XML::Compile::SOAP11::Server>.

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP/"METHODS">.
 
=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP/"Constructors">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

To simplify the URIs of the actors, as specified with the C<destination>
option, you may use the STRING C<NEXT>.  It will be replaced by the
right URI.

 -Option    --Defined in        --Default
  media_type  XML::Compile::SOAP  text/xml
  schemas     XML::Compile::SOAP  created internally

=over 2

=item media_type => MIMETYPE

=item schemas => C<XML::Compile::Cache> object

=back

=item XML::Compile::SOAP11-E<gt>B<register>($uri, $envns)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Constructors">

=back

=head2 Accessors

Extends L<"Accessors" in XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP/"Accessors">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<mediaType>()

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schemas>()

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<version>()

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Accessors">

=back

=head2 Single message

Extends L<"Single message" in XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP/"Single message">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compileMessage>( <'SENDER'|'RECEIVER'>, %options )

 -Option        --Defined in        --Default
  body            XML::Compile::SOAP  []
  destination     XML::Compile::SOAP  []
  faults          XML::Compile::SOAP  []
  header          XML::Compile::SOAP  undef
  headerfault                         []
  mustUnderstand  XML::Compile::SOAP  []
  procedure       XML::Compile::SOAP  undef
  role            XML::Compile::SOAP  ULTIMATE
  roles           XML::Compile::SOAP  []

=over 2

=item body => ENTRIES|HASH

=item destination => ARRAY-OF-PAIRS

=item faults => ENTRIES|HASH

=item header => ENTRIES|HASH

=item headerfault => ENTRIES

ARRAY of simple name with element references, for all expected
faults.  There can be unexpected faults, which will not get
decoded automatically.

=item mustUnderstand => STRING|ARRAY-OF-STRING

=item procedure => TYPE

=item role => URI|ARRAY-OF-URI

=item roles => ARRAY-OF-URI

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<messageStructure>($xml)

=item XML::Compile::SOAP11-E<gt>B<messageStructure>($xml)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Single message">

=back

=head2 Helpers

Extends L<"Helpers" in XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP/"Helpers">.
 
=head2 Transcoding

Extends L<"Transcoding" in XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP/"Transcoding">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<replyMustUnderstandFault>($type)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Transcoding">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<roleAbbreviation>($uri)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Transcoding">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<roleURI>($uri|STRING)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Transcoding">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

Extends L<"DETAILS" in XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP/"DETAILS">.
 
=head2 SOAP introduction

Extends L<"SOAP introduction" in XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP/"SOAP introduction">.
 
=head2 Supported servers

Extends L<"Supported servers" in XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP/"Supported servers">.
 
=head2 Naming types and elements

Extends L<"Naming types and elements" in XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP/"Naming types and elements">.
 
=head2 Client and Server implementations

Extends L<"Client and Server implementations" in XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP/"Client and Server implementations">.
 
=head2 Use of wildcards (any and anyAttribute)

Extends L<"Use of wildcards (any and anyAttribute)" in XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP/"Use of wildcards (any and anyAttribute)">.
 
=head2 Header and Body entries

You only call L<compileMessage()|XML::Compile::SOAP11/"Single message"> explicitly if you do not have a WSDL
file which contains this information. In the unlucky situation, you
have to dig out the defined types by hand.

But even with a WSDL, there are still a few problems you may encounter.
For instance, the WSDL will not contain C<mustUnderstand> and C<actor>
header routing information.  You can add these to the compileClient call

  my $call = $wsdl->compileClient
    ( 'MyCall'
    , mustUnderstand => 'h1'
    , destination    => [ h1 => 'NEXT' ]
    );

=head3 Simplest form

In the simplest form, the C<header> and C<body> refer (optionally) to a
list of PAIRS, each containing a free to choose unique label and the
type of the element.  The unique label will be used in the Perl HASH
which represents the message.

 my $h1el = pack_type $myns, $some_local;
 my $b1el = 'myprefix:$other_local';

 my $encode_query = $client->compileMessage
   ( 'SENDER'
   , header   => [ h1 => $h1el ]
   , body     => [ b1 => $b1el ]
   , mustUnderstand => 'h1'
   , destination    => [ h1 => 'NEXT' ]
   );

=head3 Most powerful form

When the simple form is too simple, you can use a HASH for the header,
body or both.  The HASH structure is much like the WSDL structure.
For example:

 my $encode_query = $client->compileMessage
   ( 'SENDER'
   , header   =>
      { use   => 'literal'
      , parts => [ { name => 'h1', element => $h1el
                   , mustUnderstand => 1, destination => 'NEXT'
                   } ]
      }
   , body     => [ b1 => $b1el ]
   );

So, the header now is one HASH, which tells us that we have a literal
definition (this is the default).  The optional parts for the header is
an ARRAY of HASHes, each describing one part.  As you can see, the
mustUnderstand and destination fields are more convenient (although
the other syntax will work as well).

If you feel the need to control the compilation of the various parts,
with hooks or options (see L<XML::Compile::Schema::compile()|XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers">), then have
a look at L<XML::Compile::Cache::declare()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Administration">.  Declare how to handle the
various types before you call L<compileMessage()|XML::Compile::SOAP11/"Single message">.

=head2 Receiving faults in SOAP1.1

When faults are received, they will be returned with the C<Fault> key
in the data structure.  So:

  my $answer = $call->($question);
  if($answer->{Fault}) { ... }

As extra service, for each of the fault types, as defined with
L<compileMessage(faults)|XML::Compile::SOAP/"Single message">, a decoded structure is included.  The name
of that structure can be found like this:

  if(my $faults = $answer->{Fault})
  {   my $name    = $faults->{_NAME};
      my $decoded = $answer->{$name};
      ...
  }

The untranslated C<$faults> HASH looks like this:

 Fault =>
   { faultcode => '{http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/}Server.first'
   , faultstring => 'my mistake'
   , faultactor => 'http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/actor/next'
   , detail => { '{http://test-types}fault_one' => [ XMLNODES ] }
   , _NAME => 'fault1'
   }

The C<_NAME> originates from the L<compileMessage(faults)|XML::Compile::SOAP/"Single message"> option:

   $soap->compileMessage('RECEIVER', ...
     , faults => [ fault1 => '{http://test-types}fault_one' ] );

Now, automatically the answer will contain the decoded fault
structure as well:

  fault1 =>
    { code => '{http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/}Server.first'
    , class  => [ 'http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/'
         , 'Receiver', 'first' ]
    , reason => 'my mistake',
    , role   => 'NEXT'
    , detail => { help => 'please ignore' }
    }

The C<detail> is the decoding of the XMLNODES, which are defined to
be of type C<< {http://test-types}fault_one >>.

The C<class> is an unpacked version of the code.  SOAP1.2 is using the
(better) terms C<Sender> and C<Receiver>.

C<role> is constructed by decoding the C<faultactor> using
L<roleAbbreviation()|XML::Compile::SOAP/"Transcoding">.  The names are closer to the SOAP1.2 specification.

If the received fault is of an unpredicted type, then the client tries
to DWIM. in the worst case, C<detail> will list the unparsed XMLNODEs.
When the L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon> server has produced the error,
the content of the reply will typically be

 { Fault =>        # SOAP version specific
    { _NAME => 'error'
    , #...more...
    }
 , error =>        # less SOAP version specific, readable
    { role    => 'NEXT'
    , reason  => 'procedure xyz for SOAP11 produced an invalid response'
    , error   => 'some explanation'
    , code    =>
        '{http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/}Server.invalidResponse'
    , class   => [ SOAP11ENV, 'Receiver', 'invalidResponse' ],
    }
  }

Hence, a typical client routine could contain

  my ($answer, $trace) = $call->(message => $message);
  if(my $f = $answer->{Fault})
  {   if($f->{_NAME} eq 'error')
      {   # server implementation error
          die "SERVER ERROR:\n$answer->{error}{error}\n";
      }
      else
      {   # the fault is described in the WSDL, handle it!
          warn "FAULT:\n",Dumper $answer->{$f->{_NAME}};
      }
  }
  else
  {   # correct answer
      print Dumper $answer;
  }

Or

  my ($answer, $trace) = $call->(message => $message);
  $answer or die $trace->error;

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-SOAP distribution version 3.21,
built on January 11, 2017. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile> .
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

