=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::XOP - MTOM and XOP handler

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # by default, XML::Compile encodes binary data
  my $answer    = $call->(image => $binary_image);

  # to enable use of MTOM
  use XML::Compile::XOP;
  my $xop       = XML::Compile::XOP->new;
  my $xop_image = $xop->bytes($binary_image);
  my $answer    = $call->(image => $xop_image);

  # returned XOPs in SOAP
  my ($answer, $trace, $xop) = $wsdl->call($operation)->(%data);
  print $_->string for @$xop;   # See XML::Compile::XOP::Include

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The SOAP Message Transmission Optimization Mechanism (MTOM) is designed
for SOAP1.2, but also usable for SOAP1.1.  It optimizes the transport of
binary information (like images) which are part of the XML message: in
stead of base64 encoding them adding 25% to the size of the data, these
binaries are added as pure binary attachment to the SOAP message.

In the official specification, the XML message will be created first
with the base64 representation of the data in it. Only at transmission,
a preprocessor XOP (XML-binary Optimized Packaging) extracts those
components to be send separately.  In Perl, we have to be more careful
about performance.  Therefore, the path via encoding to base64 and then
decoding it back to binary in the sender (and the reverse process for
the receiver) is avoided.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<bytes>( <STRING|SCALAR>, %options )

Create a L<XML::Compile::XOP::Include|XML::Compile::XOP::Include> object which sources from a
STRING (representing bytes) or a SCALAR reference to such a string.
With the %options, you can overrule defaults generated for the "Include"
object.

example: use of bytes()

  my $data = $xop->bytes($string, type => 'text/html');
  # $data is a XML::Compile::XOP::Include

=item $obj-E<gt>B<file>( <$filename|$fh>, %options )

Create a L<XML::Compile::XOP::Include|XML::Compile::XOP::Include> object which sources from a
FILE specified by NAME or HANDLE.  With the %options, you can overrule
defaults generated for the "Include" object.

example: use of file()

  use MIME::Types;
  my $mimetypes = MIME::Types->new;

  my $type = $mimetypes->mimeTypeOf($fn);
  my $data = $xop->file($fn, type => $fn);
  # $data is a XML::Compile::XOP::Include

=item XML::Compile::XOP-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option         --Default
  hostname         'localhost'
  xmlmime_version  XMIME11
  xop_version      XOP10

=over 2

=item hostname => STRING

This is used as part of generated Content-IDs, which have the form of
a email address.

=item xmlmime_version => URI

=item xop_version => URI

=back

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item MTOM SOAP1.2: F<http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom/>

=item MTOM SOAP1.1: F<http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/mtom/SOAP11MTOM10.pdf>

=item XOP: F<http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10/>

=item XMLMIME: F<http://www.w3.org/TR/xml-media-types>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-SOAP distribution version 3.21,
built on January 11, 2017. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile> .
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

