=head1 NAME

Excel::Table - Table processing class for Excel worksheets. 

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Excel::Table;

  my $xs = Excel::Table->new('dir' => '/cygdrive/c/Users/self/Desktop');

  for ($xs->list_workbooks) {
  	print "workbook [$_]\n";
  }

  $xs->open('mybook.xls');

  my $wb1 = $xs->open_re('foo*bar*');

  for my $worksheet ($wb1->worksheets) {
  	print "worksheet: " . $worksheet->get_name() . "\n";
  }

  $xs->null("this is a null value");
  $xs->force_null(1);	

  $xs->rowid(0);

  $xs->trim(0);

  my @data = $xs->extract('Sheet1');

  for (@data) {
  	printf "rowid [%s] title [%s] max_width [%d] value [%s]\n",
  		$_->[0],
  		$xs->titles->[0],
  		$xs->widths->[0],
  		$data{$_}->[0];
  }

  @data = $xs->extract_hash('Sheet1');

  @data = $xs->select("column1,column2,column3", 'Sheet1');

  @data = $xs->select_hash("column1,column2,column3", 'Sheet1');

  printf "columns %d rows %d title_row %d\n",
  	$xs->columns, $xs->rows, $xs->title_row;

  printf "regexp [%s] pathname [%s] sheet_name [%s]\n",
  	$xs->regexp, $xs->pathname, $xs->sheet_name;

  printf "colid2title(0) = [%s]\n", $xs->colid2title(0);

  printf "title2colid('Foo') = %d\n", $xs->title2colid('Foo');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

"Excel::Table" retrieves worksheets as if they are structured
tables in array-format or optionally in hash-format.

=over 4

=item 1a.  OBJ->dir(EXPR)

Override the directory location in which to look for workbooks.
Defaults to "." (i.e. the current working directory).
This location is critical to the B<list_workbooks>, B<open>,
and B<open_re> methods.

=item 1b.  OBJ->list_workbooks

Returns an array of workbook files in the directory defined by the
B<dir> property.

=item 2a.  OBJ->open(EXPR)

Parses the filename specified by EXPR.  The B<dir> property 
will designate the search path.
Once opened, via this method (or B<open_re>) the
workbook is available for use by the B<extract> method.

=item 2b.  OBJ->open_re(EXPR)

This will search for a file which has a filename matching the regexp EXPR.  
A warning will be issued if multiple matches are found, only the first will
be opened.

=item 3.  OBJ->regexp

Returns the regexp used to search for the workbook on the filesystem.

=item 4.  OBJ->pathname

Returns the pathname of the opened workbook.

=item 5a.  OBJ->extract(EXPR,[TITLE_ROW])

This will extract all data from the worksheet named EXPR.  Data is extracted
into an array and returned.  Format of data is per below:

  [ value1, value2, value3, ... ],
  [ value1, value2, value3, ... ],
  [ value1, value2, value3, ... ],
  ...

The object OBJ will be populated with various properties to assist you to
access the data in the array, including column titles and widths.

A worksheet object is temporarily created in order to populate the array.
Once a worksheet is extracted, the associated worksheet object is destroyed.
This routine can be called again on any worksheet in the workbook.

If the TITLE_ROW argument is specified, then the B<title_row> property will 
also be updated prior to extraction.

=item 5b.  OBJ->extract_hash(EXPR,[TITLE_ROW])

Per the B<extract> method, but returns an array of hashes, with the hash 
keys corresponding to the titles.

=item 5c.  OBJ->select(CLAUSE,EXPR,[TITLE_ROW])

Similar to the B<extract> method, this will extract all rows from the worksheet EXPR, constraining the columns to those specified by the B<clause> argument,
which is a comma-separated string, e.g. "column1,column2,column3".

As with the B<extract> method, the B<titles> and B<widths> properties will
be revised.

=item 5d.  OBJ->select_hash(CLAUSE,EXPR,[TITLE_ROW])

Per the B<select> method, but returns an array of hashes.

=item 6.  OBJ->columns or OBJ->rows

Returns the number of columns or rows available in the sheet extracted via the
B<extract> method.

=item 7a.  OBJ->force_null

Flag which determines if whitespace fields should be
replaced by specific text (see OBJ->null).

=item 7b.  OBJ->null

String to replace whitespace fields with.  Defaults to "(null)".

=item 8.  OBJ->rowid

Flag which determines whether a pseudo-column "rowid" is included in each
tuple.  The value will take the form "999999999"  Defaults to FALSE.  

=item 9.  OBJ->sheet_name

Returns the sheet_name against which data was extracted via B<extract>.

=item 10.  OBJ->trim

Flag which determines if trailing whitespace fields should be trimmed.

=item 11a.  OBJ->title_row

Returns the title row of the worksheet (defaults to zero), following extract.

=item 11b.  OBJ->titles

Returns an array of title fields, the title row number having been defined
as OBJ->title_row.

=item 11c.  OBJ->colid2title(colid)

Converts the column number (colid) to a string column title (i.e. 
the offset within the title_row array).
If no match, then returns undef.

=item 11d.  OBJ->title2colid(REGEXP)

Returns the column number of the title identified by REGEXP.
If no match, then returns undef.

=item 12.  OBJ->widths

Returns an array of maximum lengths of any (non-title) data in each column.

=back


=cut

=head1 VERSION

Build V1.022

=head1 AUTHOR

Copyright (C) 2012  Tom McMeekin E<lt>tmcmeeki@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License,
or any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<perl>, L<Spreadsheet::ParseExcel>, L<Spreadsheet::XLSX>.


=cut

