=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Codec::CBOR - DAG-CBOR encoder and decoder

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Codec::CBOR;

    my $codec = Codec::CBOR->new();

    # Encode data to CBOR bytes
    my $bytes = $codec->encode({
        t    => '#commit',
        repo => 'did:plc:123',
        data => { key => 'value' }
    });

    # Decode CBOR bytes back to Perl data
    my $data = $codec->decode($bytes);

    # Decode a sequence of concatenated CBOR objects
    my @objects = $codec->decode_sequence($concatenated_bytes);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Codec::CBOR is a thin, pure Perl implementation of the Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) format, specifically
optimized for DAG-CBOR as used in the L<AT|At> Protocol and L<IPFS|Interplanetary>.

=head2 DAG-CBOR Compliance

This module implements the following DAG-CBOR requirements:

=over

=item * Deterministic map encoding: Map keys are sorted by length (shorter first), then lexically.

=item * Tag 42 support: Special handling for Content Identifiers (CIDs).

=item * No indefinite lengths: Only definite length arrays and maps are supported.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<new()>

Constructor. Returns a new C<Codec::CBOR> instance.

=head2 C<encode($data)>

Encodes a Perl data structure into a CBOR byte string.

=over

=item * Strings: Encoded as Major Type 3 (UTF-8) if they are not references.

=item * Byte strings: Encoded as Major Type 2 if provided as a scalar reference (e.g., C<\$binary_data>).

=item * Tags: Registered class handlers can produce tagged values (Major Type 6).

=back

=head2 C<decode($input)>

Decodes a single CBOR object from a byte string or a filehandle. Returns the decoded Perl data structure.

=head2 C<decode_sequence($input)>

Decodes a sequence of concatenated CBOR objects. Returns an array (in list context) or an arrayref.

=head2 C<add_tag_handler($tag, $callback)>

Registers a callback to handle a specific CBOR tag during decoding.

    $codec->add_tag_handler(42 => sub ($data) {
        return My::CID->from_raw($data);
    });

=head2 C<add_class_handler($class, $callback)>

Registers a callback to handle a specific Perl class during encoding.

    $codec->add_class_handler('My::CID' => sub ($codec, $obj) {
        return $codec->_encode_tag(42, $obj->raw);
    });

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Archive::CAR>, L<At>, L<https://cbor.io/>, L<https://ipld.io/specs/codecs/dag-cbor/>, L<CBOR::Free>

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms found in the Artistic License
2. Other copyrights, terms, and conditions may apply to data transmitted through this module.

=cut
