
=pod

=head1 NAME

  Math::NumOnly - Disallow numeric operations that don't involve an IV or NV

=head1 DESCRIPTION

  This disallowance of numeric operations applies only to operations that
  involve one (or more) Math::NumOnly objects.
  Arithmetic in which none of the operands are Math::NumOnly objects will still
  proceed as per the normal rules.
  It's unclear to me whether an operation between a Math::NumOnly object and some
  other object (eg Math::BigInt, Math::GMP, Math::MPFR) should be allowed.
  As it currently stands, such operations are not permitted.
  It's just a silly, fun diversion - probably of little (if any) value.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Math::NumOnly;

  # my $a = Math::NumOnly->new('123.5') # Fatal error - given arg is a string.
  my $a = Math::NumOnly->new(123.5); # $a holds value of 123.5
  my $b = $a + 42; # $b holds value of 165.5
  # $b += '34.5';  # Fatal error - '34.5' is a string
  $b += 34.5;      # $b holds value of 200
  print $b, "\n";  # prints 200

  $pv = '3';
  $iv = $pv + 7; # $iv is an IV, value 10.
  $c = Math::NumOnly($iv); # $c holds value of 10
  #$c += $pv;  # Fatal error - $pv is still recognized as a string.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

  my $ok = is_ok($arg); # used internally.

    This function is not exported but can be accessed as Math::NumOnly($arg).
    It returns true if $arg is allowed to be used in an arithmetic
    operation with a Math::NumOnly object.
    Else it returns false.

  No other functions are provided, except for the subs that are responsible
  for overloading the  '+', '-', '*', '/', '**', '++', '--', '>=', '<=',
  '==', '!=', '>', '<', '<=>', '""', '+=', '-=', '*=', '/=', '**=' and
  perhaps other operations.

=head1 LICENSE

  This program is free software; you may redistribute it and/or
  modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
  Copyright 2023, Sisyphus

=head1 AUTHOR

  Sisyphus <sisyphus at(@) cpan dot (.) org>

=cut
