# ABSTRACT: A brief introduction to dependency injection with Beam::Wire
# PODNAME: Beam::Wire::Help::Config

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Beam::Wire::Help::Config - A brief introduction to dependency injection with Beam::Wire

=head1 VERSION

version 1.022

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is tutorial for Beam::Wire, starting with simple use as a configuration
file, to complex dependency injection.

This tutorial will guide you through the YAML configuration, its equivalent
Perl data structure, and the equivalent Perl code that is executed.

=head1 OBJECT CONFIGURATION

The basic Beam::Wire configuration is a hash of hashes describing how to create
objects (which, in a dependency injection context, are called "services"). The
top-level keys are the name of the object, and the inner keys are object
configuration. To configure an object, you need the class and, optionally,
constructor arguments (C<args>).

    # container.yml
    malcolm:
        class: Person
        args:
            name: Malcolm Reynolds
            rank: Captain

     # container.pl
     my $config = {
        malcolm => {
            class => 'Person',
            args => {
                name => 'Malcolm Reynolds',
                rank => 'Captain',
            },
        },
    };

Once we have a configuration file (also called a "container file"), we can give
it to Beam::Wire and get our objects ("services").

    my $wire = Beam::Wire->new( file => 'container.yml' );
    my $malcolm = $wire->get( 'malcolm' );

You can also configure objects directly in Beam::Wire.

    my $wire = Beam::Wire->new( config => $config ); # $config from above
    my $malcolm = $wire->get( 'malcolm' );

The configuration will be used by Beam::Wire to create your object, similar to
running this code:

    my $malcolm = Person->new(
        name => 'Malcolm Reynolds',
        rank => 'Captain',
    );

=head2 Specifying Constructor Args

Objects have varying ways of specifying arguments to their constructors.
The most common method, used by most Perl object frameworks, of
specifying name/value pairs is the easiest:

    # container.yml
    malcolm:
        class: Person
        args:
            name: Malcolm Reynolds
            rank: Captain

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        malcolm => {
            class => 'Person',
            args => {
                name => 'Malcolm Reynolds',
                rank => 'Captain',
            },
        },
    };

For any other kind of constructor arguments, you can specify an arbitrary
array. If the object's constructor is not called C<new>, you can use the
C<method> key:

    # container.yml
    dbh:
        class: DBI
        method: connect
        args:
            - 'dbi:SQLite:firefly.db'
            - ~
            - ~
            - RaiseError: 1

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        sqlite => {
            class => 'DBI',
            method => 'connect',
            args => [
                'dbi:SQLite:firefly.db',
                undef,
                undef,
                { RaiseError => 1 },
            ],
        },
    };

This is the same as:

    my $dbh = DBI->connect(
        'dbi:SQLite:firefly.db',
        undef,
        undef,
        { RaiseError => 1 },
    );

If you need a single hash reference of arguments, you can use an array
with a single element, like this:

    # container.yml
    wash:
        class: Person
        args:
            - name: "Hoban Washburne"
              rank: Pilot

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        wash => {
            class => 'Person',
            args => [
                {
                    name => 'Hoban Washburne',
                    rank => 'Pilot',
                },
            ],
        },
    };

Which is the same as:

    my $wash = Person->new( {
        name => 'Hoban Washburne',
        rank => 'Pilot',
    } );

=head2 Prefixed Metadata

For brevity's sake, if your constructor takes a hash of arguments, you
can configure your service using C<$class> instead:

    # container.yml
    simon:
        $class: Person
        name: Simon Tam
        rank: Doctor

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        simon => {
            '$class' => 'Person',
            name => 'Simon Tam',
            rank => 'Doctor',
        },
    };

Which is the same as:

    my $simon = Person->new( {
        name => 'Simon Tam',
        rank => 'Doctor',
    } );

This makes it easy to make a "default class" in your config file:

    use Scalar::Util qw( blessed );
    my $person = $wire->get( 'person' );
    if ( !blessed $person ) {
        $person = Person->new( %$person );
    }

By prefixing any metadata with the prefix character (default: C<$>), you
can interleave your args and your metadata.

=head1 OBJECT LIFECYCLE

By default, services are lazy and cached. They are not created until
they are asked for (lazy), and once created, they are reused if asked
for again (cached).

=head2 factory

By default, all objects are cached in the container, so asking for the
same object twice will get the B<exact> same object. To prevent this
caching, you can force the container to make a new object every time by
setting the C<lifecycle> to C<factory>. Objects from a factory are not
cached. For example:

    # container.yml
    light_drone:
        class: Drone
        lifecycle: factory
        args:
            model: Light
            cost: 20

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        light_drone => {
            class => 'Drone',
            lifecycle => 'factory',
            args => {
                model => 'Light',
                cost => 20,
            },
        },
    };

This is basically the same as creating a sub to create our objects,
like so:

    my $light_drone_factory = sub {
        return Drone->new(
            model => 'Light',
            cost => 20,
        );
    };

We can then pull infinite numbers of separate drones out of our factory:

    my $wire = Beam::Wire->new( file => 'container.yml' );
    my $light_drone = $wire->get( 'light_drone' );
    my $replacement = $wire->get( 'light_drone' );
    my $other_drone = $wire->get( 'light_drone' );

=head2 eager

Some special kinds of objects have global effects that happen when
they are created, like a global logging system (like L<Log::Log4perl>).

To force an object to be created as soon as possible, you can set
C<lifecycle> to C<eager>.

    # container.yml
    black_box:
        $class: Logger
        $lifecycle: eager
        log_level: warn

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        black_box => {
            '$class' => 'Logger',
            '$lifecycle' => 'eager',
            log_level => 'warn',
        },
    };

Once the container has been read, all of the eager objects will be
created, and cached as normal.

    my $wire = Beam::Wire->new( file => 'container.yml' );
    # black_box is created automatically

=head1 DEPENDENCY INJECTION

The key feature of a dependency injection container is the ability to
inject dependencies into the services as they are created. Dependencies
are other services (objects) that must be created and passed-in to our
current object.

Unlike above, where we were giving simple arguments to our constructors,
with dependency injection, we can give other objects as arguments.

=head2 References ($ref)

References allow us to refer to another object in our container. If
needed, the object is constructed for us, so that when we ask for an
object, the objects it depends are created automatically.

To refer to another object, use C<$ref>:

    # container.yml
    serenity:
        class: Ship
        args:
            captain:
                $ref: malcolm
            pilot:
                $ref: wash
            engineer:
                $ref: kaylee

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        serenity => {
            class => 'Ship',
            args => {
                captain => { '$ref' => 'malcolm' },
                pilot => { '$ref' => 'wash' },
                engineer => { '$ref' => 'kaylee' },
            },
        },
    };

This is equivalent to:

    my $malcolm = Person->new( ... );
    my $wash = Person->new( ... );
    my $kaylee = Person->new( ... );
    my $serenity = Ship->new(
        captain => $malcolm,
        pilot => $wash,
        engineer => $kaylee,
    );

Remember that, by default, all the objects are cached, so another
reference to C<malcolm> gets the same shuài space captain. If
that's not desired, you can use L<the C<lifecycle> config|/OBJECT LIFECYCLE>.

=head2 Anonymous Objects

Instead of having to create a named service, you can create a new,
anonymous object as a dependency. This is useful when you want to keep
related objects together in the configuration file.

You can create an anonymous object anywhere you could create a reference
(C<$ref>). To create an anonymous object, use C<$class> and optionally
C<$args> and C<$method>.

    # container.yml
    cargo:
        class: Box
        args:
            contents:
                $class: Person
                $args:
                    name: River Tam
                    status: Hibernating

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        cargo => {
            class => 'Box',
            args => {
                contents => {
                    '$class' => 'Person',
                    '$args' => {
                        name => 'River Tam',
                        status => 'Hibernating',
                    },
                },
            },
        },
    };

This is equivalent to:

    my $cargo = Box->new(
        contents => Person->new(
            name => 'River Tam',
            status => 'Hibernating',
        ),
    );

=head1 OBJECT COMPOSITION

One of the benefits of using Beam::Wire to define your configuration is
being able to intelligently compose your objects to reduce duplication
and prevent messy copy/paste jobs.

=head2 extends

If you have a bunch of objects that need to share properties, or that
only differ in one or two things, you can inherit properties using
C<extends>:

    # container.yml
    serenity_crew:
        class: Person
        args:
            ship: Serenity
            model: Firefly
    kaylee:
        extends: serenity_crew
        args:
            name: Kaylee Frye
            rank: Engineer

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        serenity_crew => {
            class => 'Person',
            args => {
                ship => 'Serenity',
                model => 'Firefly',
            },
        },
        kaylee => {
            extends => 'serenity_crew',
            args => {
                name => 'Kaylee Frye',
                rank => 'Engineer',
            },
        },
    };

Which ends up composing our object as:

    my $kaylee = Person->new(
        ship => 'Serenity',     # from "serenity_crew"
        model => 'Firefly',     # from "serenity_crew"
        name => 'Kaylee Frye',  # from "kaylee"
        rank => 'Engineer',     # from "kaylee"
    );

This allows us to quickly change any object config that extends the
parent object config (say, to update their C<status> to C<fugitive>).

=head1 NON-OBJECT SERVICES

Not everything in our container needs to be an object. Some services may
need to share simple configuration values (such as usernames and
passwords) or even entire configuration files.

=head2 Value Services

Instead of creating an object, we can create simple values like strings,
numbers, arrays, and hashes using the C<value> key:

    # container.yml
    bounty:
        value: 100000
    itinerary:
        value:
            - Heaven
            - Highgate
            - Muir
            - Miranda

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        bounty => {
            value => 100000,
        },
        itinerary => {
            value => [
                'Heaven',
                'Highgate',
                'Muir',
                'Miranda',
            ],
        },
    };

These services can be used like any other. You can get the value with
the C<get()> method:

    my $itinerary = $wire->get( 'itinerary' );

And you can set up relationships with C<$ref>:

    # container.yml
    serenity_crew:
        class: Person
        args:
            bounty:
                $ref: bounty

=head2 Config Services

A config service allows you to read a config file and use it as
a service, giving all or part of it to other objects in your container.

To create a config service, use the C<config> key. The value is the path
to the file to read. By default, YAML, JSON, XML, and Perl files are
supported (via L<Config::Any>).

This works very much like a C<value> service (above). The configuration
file is read, and the data inside is the result.

    # manifest.yml
    - 12 pair socks
    - 5 shirts, black
    - 5 shirts, slightly darker black
    - 1 strawberry

    # container.yml
    manifest:
        config: manifest.yml

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        manifest => {
            config => 'manifest.yml',
        },
    };

These services can be used like any other. You can get the value with
the C<get()> method:

    my $manifest = $wire->get( 'manifest' );

And you can set up relationships with C<$ref>:

    # container.yml
    serenity:
        class: Ship
        args:
            cargo:
                $ref: manifest

If you only need the config file once, you can create an anonymous config
object.

    # container.yml
    serenity:
        class: Ship
        args:
            cargo:
                $config: manifest.yml

=head2 Bare Services

Additionally, any service that does not look like an object config (does
not pass L<the is_meta method|Beam::Wire/is_meta>) will be treated like
a bare service. A bare service is like a value service, except that
references inside are resolved. With this, you can set up arrays and
hashes of objects.

    # container.yml
    crew_list:
        - $ref: malcolm
        - $ref: zoe
        - $ref: wash
        - $ref: kaylee
        - $ref: jayne
    crew_manifest:
        captain:
            $ref: malcolm
        pilot:
            $ref: wash
        engineer:
            $ref: kaylee

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        crew_list => [
            { '$ref' => 'malcolm' },
            { '$ref' => 'zoe' },
            { '$ref' => 'wash' },
            { '$ref' => 'kaylee' },
            { '$ref' => 'jayne' },
        ],
        crew_manifest => {
            captain => {
                '$ref' => 'malcolm',
            },
            pilot => {
                '$ref' => 'wash',
            },
            engineer => {
                '$ref' => 'kaylee',
            },
        },
    };

=head1 ADVANCED FEATURES

=head2 Nested Containers

Nested containers can be created by adding Beam::Wire objects to
a Beam::Wire container. This can be useful for sharing common objects
(logging, database, or others) between multiple containers, or combining
multiple containers into one.

    # actors.yml
    malcolm:
        class: Actor
        args:
            name: Nathan Fillion
    zoe:
        class: Actor
        args:
            name: Gina Torres

    # container.yml
    actors:
        class: Beam::Wire
        args:
            file: actors.yml

    # script.pl
    my $wire = Beam::Wire->new( file => 'container.yml' );
    my $actor = $wire->get( 'actors/malcolm' );

Nested container file paths are relative to the current container file
by default. If needed, you can set the L<dir attribute|Beam::Wire/dir>
to change what directory to search in.

=head2 Event Handlers (on)

If your objects use L<the Beam::Emitter event system|Beam::Emitter>, you
can attach events to your object using the C<on> key. This ensures that
when your object is created, all of its event handlers are also created.

The C<on> key should be an array of hashes. The hash key is the name of
the event. The hash value should be a reference (C<$ref>) or an
anonymous object (C<$class>), and must include a subroutine to call on
that service using the C<$sub> key.

    # container.yml
    serenity:
        class: Ship
        on:
            - compressor_alert:
                $ref: ignore
                $sub: ignore_alert
            - airlock_open:
                $class: Klaxon
                $args:
                    volume: loud
                $sub: alert

If you're not using YAML, you can organize event handlers as a simple
hash, or a hash of arrays if you need multiple handlers for the same
event:

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        serenity => {
            class => 'Ship',
            on => {
                compressor_alert => {
                    '$ref' => 'ignore',
                    '$sub' => 'ignore_alert',
                },
                airlock_open => {
                    '$class' => 'Klaxon',
                    '$args' => {
                        volume => 'loud',
                    },
                    '$sub' => 'alert',
                },
            },
        },
    };

=head2 Compose Roles (with)

Sometimes we have an object, but we also want to add a role to it.
Instead of having to create a new, concrete class to compose every
possible combination of roles, we can instead compose those roles when
creating the object with the C<with> key.

C<with> can be a single string, which is a role class to compose, or an
array of strings to compose multiple roles.

    # container.yml
    shepherd:
        class: Person
        with: DarkPast

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        shepherd => {
            class => 'Person',
            with => 'DarkPast',
        },
    };

Then, when the C<shepherd> object is created, a new, anonymous class is
created that extends the C<Person> class and adds the C<DarkPast> role.

=head2 Multiple Constructor Methods

Sometimes an object can't be constructed with just a single method. We
may have to call some methods to set attributes that are puzzlingly not
exposed in the constructor, or we may want to immediately try to connect
to a service.

To call multiple methods during construction, we can pass an array to
the C<method> key. Each member of the array should be a hash containing
another C<method> key, which will be the method to call, and optionally
an C<args> key, which will be the arguments to that specific method.

The first constructor method must construct the object itself. Each
other method will be called on the object, and then the object will be
used as the service.

    # container.yml
    malcolm:
        class: Person
        method:
            - method: new
              args:
                name: 'Malcolm Reynolds'
            - method: set_bounty
              args:
                - 100000
            - method: set_rank
              args:
                - Captain

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        malcolm => {
            class => 'Person',
            method => [
                {
                    method => 'new',
                    args => {
                        name => 'Malcolm Reynolds',
                    },
                },
                {
                    method => 'set_bounty',
                    args => [ 100000 ],
                },
                {
                    method => 'set_rank',
                    args => [ 'Captain' ],
                },
            ],
        },
    };

This is equivalent to doing:

    my $malcolm = Person->new( name => 'Malcolm Reynolds' );
    $malcolm->set_bounty( 100000 );
    $malcolm->set_rank( 'Captain' );
    return $malcolm;

It's not a commonly-needed feature, but it exists just in case. Instead
of doing this, you may be better off wrapping the class that requires
this in your own class which provides a saner construction API. You
could then release this wrapper class to CPAN in the C<Beam::Service::*>
namespace).

=head2 Chained Constructor Methods

Chained constructor methods work the same as multiple constructor
methods, except the result of the first method is used as the invocant
of the second method, and the result of the second method is used as the
invocant of the third method.

To chain a method to its following method, add C<return: chain> to the
hash of method attributes. The last instance of C<return: chain> will be
the return value used for the service.

    # container.yml
    malcolm:
        class: Person
        method:
            - method: new
              args:
                name: 'Malcolm Reynolds'
              return: chain
            - method: set_bounty
              args:
                - 100000
              return: chain
            - method: set_rank
              args:
                - Captain
              return: chain

    # container.pl
    my $config = {
        malcolm => {
            class => 'Person',
            method => [
                {
                    method => 'new',
                    args => {
                        name => 'Malcolm Reynolds',
                    },
                },
                {
                    method => 'set_bounty',
                    args => [ 100000 ],
                },
                {
                    method => 'set_rank',
                    args => [ 'Captain' ],
                },
            ],
        },
    };

This is equivalent to doing:

    my $malcolm = Person->new( name => 'Malcolm Reynolds' );
    $malcolm = $malcolm->set_bounty( 100000 );
    $malcolm = $malcolm->set_rank( 'Captain' );
    return $malcolm;

This is useful if you need to connect to a database, and then get
a specific object for a table (DBIx::Class) or collection (MongoDB).

=head2 Data Paths

You can reference individual items in a C<value> or C<config> service
using C<$path> references. This uses L<the Data::DPath
module|Data::DPath> to match parts of the data structure. This is
a powerful tool that can be used to create automatic filters on data
structures, even executing Perl code to find items to return.

    # container.yml
    bounties:
        value:
            malcolm: 50000
            zoe: 35000
            simon: 100000

    captain:
        class: Person
        args:
            name: Malcolm Reynolds
            bounty:
                $ref: bounties
                $path: /malcolm

B<NOTE:> You cannot use C<$path> and anonymous config objects.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<Beam::Wire>

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

=over 4

=item *

Doug Bell <preaction@cpan.org>

=item *

Al Newkirk <anewkirk@ana.io>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2018 by Doug Bell.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
