=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Time::Str::Calendar - Gregorian calendar validation and computation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Time::Str::Calendar qw( valid_ymd ymd_to_rdn ymd_to_dow
                                ymd_to_doy yd_to_ymd
                                nth_dow_in_month
                                rdn_to_ymd resolve_century );

    # Validate a date
    valid_ymd(2024, 2, 29);  # true (leap year)
    valid_ymd(2023, 2, 29);  # false

    # Rata Die Number
    my $rdn = ymd_to_rdn(2024, 12, 24);      # 739244

    # Day of week (1=Mon .. 7=Sun)
    my $dow = ymd_to_dow(2024, 12, 24);      # 2 (Tuesday)

    # Day of year (1-366)
    my $doy = ymd_to_doy(2024, 12, 24);      # 359

    # Day of year to date
    my ($m, $d) = yd_to_md(2024, 359);       # (12, 24)

    # Rata Die to date
    my ($y, $m, $d) = rdn_to_ymd(739244);    # (2024, 12, 24)

    # Resolve two-digit year
    my $year = resolve_century(24, 1950);    # 2024

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides Gregorian calendar functions for date validation,
day numbering, and century resolution. All functions operate on integer
values and are exportable on request. Use C<:all> to import everything.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 leap_year

    my $bool = leap_year($year);

Returns true if the given year is a leap year in the Gregorian calendar.

=head2 month_days

    my $days = month_days($year, $month);

Returns the number of days in the given month (28-31), accounting
for leap years.

Croaks if C<month> is out of range [1, 12].

=head2 valid_ymd

    my $bool = valid_ymd($year, $month, $day);

Returns true if the given date is valid in the Gregorian calendar.
Checks year (1-9999), month (1-12), and day range for the given
month, accounting for leap years.

=head2 ymd_to_rdn

    my $rdn = ymd_to_rdn($year, $month, $day);

Returns the Rata Die Number for the given date (day 1 = 0001-01-01).

Croaks if C<year> is out of range [1, 9999], C<month> is out of
range [1, 12], or C<day> is out of range [1, 31].

The date is not validated; use C<valid_ymd> first if the input is
untrusted.

=head2 rdn_to_ymd

    my ($year, $month, $day) = rdn_to_ymd($rdn);

Converts a Rata Die Number back to a Gregorian date.

Croaks if C<rdn> is out of range [1, 3652059].

=head2 rdn_to_dow

    my $dow = rdn_to_dow($rdn);

Returns the day of week for the given Rata Die Number as an integer
(1=Monday .. 7=Sunday).

Croaks if C<rdn> is out of range [1, 3652059].

=head2 ymd_to_doy

    my $doy = ymd_to_doy($year, $month, $day);

Returns the day of year (1-366) for the given date.

Croaks if C<year> is out of range [1, 9999], C<month> is out of
range [1, 12], or C<day> is out of range [1, 31].

The date is not validated; use C<valid_ymd> first if the input is
untrusted.

=head2 yd_to_md

    my ($month, $day) = yd_to_md($year, $day);

Converts a year and day of year (1-366) to a Gregorian date.

Croaks if C<year> is out of range [1, 9999], or C<day> is out of 
range [1, 366].

The date is not validated; use C<valid_yd> first if the input is
untrusted.

=head2 ymd_to_dow

    my $dow = ymd_to_dow($year, $month, $day);

Returns the day of week as an integer (1=Monday .. 7=Sunday).

Croaks if C<year> is out of range [1, 9999], C<month> is out of
range [1, 12], or C<day> is out of range [1, 31].

The date is not validated; use C<valid_ymd> first if the input is
untrusted.

=head2 nth_dow_in_month

    my $day = nth_dow_in_month($year, $month, $ord, $dow);

Returns the day of month for the I<ord>-th occurrence of weekday
I<dow> in the given month and year.

C<$dow> uses the ISO convention (1=Monday .. 7=Sunday).

C<$ord> is a signed ordinal:

=over 4

=item * B<1> to B<4> count forward from the start of the month.

=item * B<-1> to B<-4> count backward from the end of the month
(C<-1> = last, C<-2> = second-to-last, etc.).

=back

    # 2nd Sunday of March 2024 (US spring forward)
    nth_dow_in_month(2024, 3, 2, 7)    # 10

    # Last Sunday of October 2024 (EU fall back)
    nth_dow_in_month(2024, 10, -1, 7)  # 27

    # 4th Thursday of November 2024 (US Thanksgiving)
    nth_dow_in_month(2024, 11, 4, 4)   # 28

    # Last Monday of May 2024 (US Memorial Day)
    nth_dow_in_month(2024, 5, -1, 1)   # 27

Croaks if C<year> is out of range [1, 9999], C<month> is out of
range [1, 12], C<ord> is out of range [-4, -1] or [1, 4], or
C<dow> is out of range [1, 7].

=head2 resolve_century

    my $resolved = resolve_century($year, $pivot_year);

Resolves a two-digit year (0-99) to a four-digit year using the
given pivot year. Years below the pivot offset map to the next
century; others map to the pivot's century.

    resolve_century(24, 1950)  # 2024
    resolve_century(49, 1950)  # 2049
    resolve_century(50, 1950)  # 1950
    resolve_century(99, 1950)  # 1999

Croaks if C<year> is out of range [0, 99] or C<pivot_year> is out
of range [0, 9899].

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Time::Str>, L<Time::Str::Token>, L<Time::Str::Regexp>

=head1 AUTHOR

Christian Hansen

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2026 by Christian Hansen

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
