=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Time::Str::Regexp - Precompiled regular expressions for date/time formats

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Time::Str::Regexp qw( $RFC3339_Rx $RFC2822_Rx $DateTime_Rx );

    if ($string =~ $RFC3339_Rx) {
      my %date = %+;
      ...
    }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides precompiled regular expressions for parsing date/time
strings in various standard formats. Each regex uses named captures to
extract date and time components.

All regexes are anchored (C<\A> ... C<\z>). They perform structural
matching only; semantic validation (e.g., day-of-month range, leap
years) is not performed by the regex.

=head1 NAMED CAPTURES

Successful matches populate C<%+> with the following keys:

=over 4

=item C<year>

Two or four-digit year. Two-digit years appear in C<ASN1UT>,
C<RFC5280>, and RFC 850 within C<RFC2616>. Use C<resolve_century>
from L<Time::Str::Calendar> to expand to four digits.

=item C<month>

Month (1-2 digits or name, depending on format). May be a Roman numeral
(C<I>-C<XII>) in C<DateTime>. Use C<parse_month> from
L<Time::Str::Token> to convert to an integer.

=item C<day>

Day of month (1-2 digits). May include an ordinal suffix (e.g., C<24th>)
in C<DateTime>; use C<parse_day> from L<Time::Str::Token> to convert.

=item C<hour>

Hour (1-2 digits). Single-digit hours only appear in C<DateTime>
when followed by a meridiem or minutes.

=item C<minute>

Minute (2 digits).

=item C<second>

Second (2 digits).

=item C<fraction>

Fractional digits (1-9) of the least significant time component
present. No leading separator (dot or comma).

Most formats capture fractional seconds only: C<RFC3339>, C<RFC9557>,
C<RFC4287>, C<W3CDTF>, C<ISO9075>, C<CLF>, C<UnixStamp>, C<DateTime>,
C<ECMAScript>.

C<ISO8601> and C<ASN1GT> may capture fractional hours, minutes, or
seconds depending on which is the least significant component present.

=item C<day_name>

Day name when present (e.g., C<Mon>, C<Monday>). Use C<parse_day_name>
from L<Time::Str::Token> to convert to an integer (1=Monday .. 7=Sunday).

=item C<meridiem>

AM/PM indicator (C<DateTime> only). Accepts C<AM>, C<PM>, C<A.M.>,
and C<P.M.> (case-insensitive). Use C<parse_meridiem> from
L<Time::Str::Token> to convert to an hour offset.

=item C<tz_utc>

UTC designator: C<Z>, C<z>, C<UT>, C<UTC>, or C<GMT>. C<UT> is only
accepted in C<RFC2822> and C<RFC2822FWS>.

=item C<tz_offset>

Numeric timezone offset. Format varies: C<±HHMM>, C<±HH:MM>, C<±HH>,
C<±H:MM>, or C<±H> depending on the regex matched. Single-digit hour
forms (C<±H>, C<±H:MM>) are only accepted in C<DateTime> when preceded
by a UTC designator (e.g., C<UTC+5>, C<GMT+5:30>). Use C<parse_tz_offset>
from L<Time::Str::Token> to convert to minutes.

Both C<tz_utc> and C<tz_offset> may be present in the same match
(e.g., C<GMT+0530> in C<DateTime> and C<ECMAScript>).

=item C<tz_abbrev>

Timezone abbreviation matching C<[A-Z][A-Za-z][A-Z]{1,4}> (e.g.,
C<EST>, C<CET>, C<AEST>).

=item C<tz_annotation>

RFC 9557 annotation tags (C<RFC9557> and C<DateTime>). May contain
multiple tags (e.g., C<[America/New_York][u-ca=gregory]>).

=back

=head1 EXPORTED VARIABLES

All variables are exportable on request. Nothing is exported by default.

=head2 Profiles of ISO 8601

=over 4

=item C<$ISO8601_Rx> - ISO 8601 (basic and extended format)

=item C<$RFC4287_Rx> - Atom feed timestamp (RFC 4287)

=item C<$W3CDTF_Rx> - W3C Date and Time Format

=item C<$RFC5545_Rx> - iCalendar (RFC 5545)

=back

=head2 Based on ISO 8601

=over 4

=item C<$RFC3339_Rx> - Internet timestamp (RFC 3339)

=item C<$RFC9557_Rx> - Timestamps with annotations (RFC 9557)

=item C<$ISO9075_Rx> - SQL timestamp (ISO 9075)

=item C<$ASN1GT_Rx> - ASN.1 GeneralizedTime

=item C<$ASN1UT_Rx> - ASN.1 UTCTime

=item C<$RFC5280_Rx> - X.509 certificate time (RFC 5280)

=back

=head2 RFC / IMF / HTTP / IMAP

=over 4

=item C<$RFC2822_Rx> - Internet Message Format (RFC 2822, canonical)

=item C<$RFC2822FWS_Rx> - RFC 2822 with folding white space and nested comments

=item C<$RFC2616_Rx> - HTTP-date (RFC 2616 / RFC 7231)

=item C<$RFC3501_Rx> - IMAP date-time (RFC 3501)

=back

=head2 Unix / C Library

=over 4

=item C<$ANSIC_Rx> - ANSI C ctime()/asctime()

=item C<$UnixDate_Rx> - Unix date(1) output

=item C<$UnixStamp_Rx> - Unix date based, with optional fractional seconds and timezone

=item C<$GitDate_Rx> - Git default date format

=item C<$RubyDate_Rx> - Ruby/Rails date format

=back

=head2 Other

=over 4

=item C<$ECMAScript_Rx> - ECMAScript Date.prototype.toString

=item C<$CLF_Rx> - Common Log Format

=item C<$DateTime_Rx> - Permissive multi-format parser

=back

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 mapping

    my %map = Time::Str::Regexp->mapping;
    my $map = Time::Str::Regexp->mapping;  # hashref in scalar context

Returns the format name to regex mapping. Keys are lowercase format
names; values are precompiled regexes.

=head1 EXAMPLE

Using L<Time::Str::Regexp>, L<Time::Str::Token>, and
L<Time::Str::Calendar> together to build a custom parser:

    use Time::Str::Regexp   qw( $DateTime_Rx );
    use Time::Str::Token    qw( parse_day parse_month parse_day_name
                                parse_meridiem parse_tz_offset );
    use Time::Str::Calendar qw( valid_ymd ymd_to_dow );

    my $string = 'Monday, December 24th, 2012 at 3:30:45 PM UTC+1';

    if ($string =~ $DateTime_Rx) {
      my %m = %+;

      my $dow       = parse_day_name($m{day_name});    # 1 (Monday)
      $m{month}     = parse_month($m{month});          # 12
      $m{day}       = parse_day($m{day});              # 24
      $m{tz_offset} = parse_tz_offset($m{tz_offset});  # 60

      valid_ymd(@m{qw(year month day)})
        or die "invalid date";

      ($dow == ymd_to_dow(@m{qw(year month day)}))
        or die "day name does not match date";

      my $hour_offset = parse_meridiem($m{meridiem});  # 12
      $m{hour} = ($m{hour} % 12) + $hour_offset;       # 15

      printf "%04d-%02d-%02dT%02d:%02d:%02d (%+3.2fH)\n",
        @m{qw(year month day hour minute second)}, $m{tz_offset} / 60;
        # 2012-12-24T15:30:45 (+1.00H)
    }

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Time::Str>, L<Time::Str::Token>, L<Time::Str::Calendar>

=head1 AUTHOR

Christian Hansen

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2026 by Christian Hansen

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
