=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Time::Str::Token - Convert captured date/time tokens to semantic values

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Time::Str::Token qw( parse_day
                             parse_day_name
                             parse_meridiem
                             parse_month
                             parse_tz_offset );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides functions for converting individual captured
date/time tokens into their numeric equivalents. Each function accepts
a single string and returns an integer, croaking on invalid input.

These functions are intended for use with captures from
L<Time::Str::Regexp> when building custom parsers.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

All functions are exportable on request. Use C<:all> to import everything.

=head2 parse_day

    my $day = parse_day($string);

Converts a day-of-month string to an integer (1-31). Accepts numeric
values with or without leading zero, and ordinal suffixes. Case-insensitive.

    parse_day('3')     # 3
    parse_day('03')    # 3
    parse_day('3rd')   # 3
    parse_day('24th')  # 24
    parse_day('31st')  # 31

Croaks with C<Unable to parse: day is invalid> on failure.

=head2 parse_month

    my $month = parse_month($string);

Converts a month string to an integer (1-12). Accepts numeric values
with or without leading zero, abbreviated names, full names, and 
Roman numerals. Case-insensitive.

    parse_month('1')         # 1
    parse_month('01')        # 1
    parse_month('Jan')       # 1
    parse_month('january')   # 1
    parse_month('IX')        # 9
    parse_month('sept')      # 9

Croaks with C<Unable to parse: month is invalid> on failure.

=head2 parse_day_name

    my $dow = parse_day_name($string);

Converts a day name to an integer (1=Monday .. 7=Sunday). Accepts
abbreviated and full names. Case-insensitive.

    parse_day_name('Mon')       # 1
    parse_day_name('monday')    # 1
    parse_day_name('Tues')      # 2
    parse_day_name('Thu')       # 4
    parse_day_name('Thurs')     # 4
    parse_day_name('Sunday')    # 7

Croaks with C<Unable to parse: day name is invalid> on failure.

=head2 parse_meridiem

    my $offset = parse_meridiem($string);

Converts an AM/PM indicator to an hour offset (0 for AM, 12 for PM).
Accepts C<AM>, C<PM>, C<A.M.>, and C<P.M.>. Case-insensitive.

    parse_meridiem('am')    # 0
    parse_meridiem('PM')    # 12
    parse_meridiem('a.m.')  # 0
    parse_meridiem('P.M.')  # 12

Croaks with C<Unable to parse: meridiem is invalid> on failure.

=head2 parse_tz_offset

    my $minutes = parse_tz_offset($string);

Converts a timezone offset string to a signed offset in minutes
from UTC. Positive is east, negative is west.

Accepted formats:

    ±H       +5, -5
    ±HH      +05, -05
    ±H:MM    +5:30, -5:30
    ±HHMM    +0530, -0500
    ±HH:MM   +05:30, -05:00

Croaks with C<Unable to parse: timezone offset is invalid> on failure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Time::Str>, L<Time::Str::Regexp>, L<Time::Str::Calendar>

=head1 AUTHOR

Christian Hansen

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2026 by Christian Hansen

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
