=head1 Revision history for Perl extension Filesys::SamFS.

=over

=item * 0.101 2008-04-14 10:34

Changed the licensing to the Artistic License 2.0.
Added Artistic-2.0, const-c.inc, and const-xs.inc to MANIFEST.

=item * 0.1 2008-03-30 14:19

Changed Makefile.PL so that it can run non-interactively.

=for html
<P></P>

=item * 0.1_01 2008-01-14 13:21

Regenerated code for constants with recent h2xs to make it
more efficient. All new constants in supports include files added.
Added new macros as well.
sam_stat now returns the number of blocks and a constant blocksize
of 512.

New versions of stat and lstat: stat_sclars and lstat_scalars. They
return an array ref pointing to the copy arrays rather than the arrays
themselves, plus the new members of the structure.
Code wrapping sam_vsn_stat, sam_segment_vsn_stat, sam_segment_stat,
sam_segment_lstat, sam_restore_file, sam_restore_copy
Much of the new code can be switched off by defining OLD_SAMFS.

NOTE: The behaviour of sam_vsn_stat has been changed. Unless compiled
with OLD_SAMFS, it returns a reference to one array that contains
the attributes of the requested copy rather than a list of arrays,
where the first array contains the attributes. I.e. the other arrays
have been dropped.

=for html
<P></P>

=item * 0.035  Wed May 29 11:11:34 2002

Moved website to www.lupe-christoph.de (Yay!)

=for html
<P></P>

=item * 0.034  Mon Jun 25 14:26:08 2001

Added missing functions to export lists:
  sam_archive sam_cancelstage sam_release sam_ssum sam_stage sam_setfa sam_advise

=for html
<P></P>

=item * 0.033  Mon Apr 23 19:32:06 2001

Removed license statement ("same as Perl") from Copyright
section in README.pod.
Added License section to README.pod.
Added file Artistic to the distribution.

=for html
<P></P>

=item * 0.032  Wed Apr 11 11:19:51 2001

Corrected minor mistake in examples/sls.
Corrected documentation for vsn_stat - it requires two arguments.

=for html
<P></P>

=item * 0.031  Tue Mar  7 09:56:58 2000

Changed name of the SamFS version sub from VERSION (clashes with the
module VERSION) to SAM_VERSION.
Added opencat, closecat, and getcatalog to the documentation,
which was also a little beautified.

=for html
<P></P>

=item * 0.03  Thu Feb 24 20:34:35 2000

Support for SamFS release 3.3.1.
Added
SS_ARCHIVE_C,
SS_DIRECTIO,
SS_PARTIAL,
SS_ISARCHIVE_C,
SS_ISDIRECTIO,
SS_ISPARTIAL
(only defined when Filesys::SamFS is installed with a SamFS version
that has them).
Changed implementation of sam_vsn_stat().

=for html
<P></P>

=item * 0.021  Wed Feb 23 10:46:00 2000

Converted README and Changes to POD format.
Changed Makefile.PL to generate text and HTML versions from them.

=for html
<P></P>

=item * 0.02  Tue Feb 22 14:40:30 2000

Reworked tests, Makefile.PL, added examples/sls

=for html
<P></P>

=item * 0.01  Fri Feb 11 16:20:49 2000

original version; created by h2xs 1.19

=back
