=head1 Filesys::SamFS

=head2 Description

Filesys::SamFS makes the SamFS API available to Perl. SamFS is a
HSM (Hierarchical Storage Management) Filesystem; it manages
files in two storage levels - a cache on disks and an archive
on removable media like magneto-optical disks or tapes.

SamFS is a product of Sun Microsystems, Inc. For more information,
please refer to

      http://www.sun.com/storagetek/management_software/data_management/sam/

=head2 Copying

Copyright (c) 2000,2001,2008 Lupe Christoph. All rights reserved.

=head2 License

This software is covered by the Artistic license 2.0, see the
file Artistic-2.0 included in the distribution.

=head2 Download

=for html
You can download Filesys::SamFS from <A HREF="http://www.cpan.org/">CPAN</A> and from <A HREF="http://www.lupe-christoph.de/Personal/Perl/Filesys-SamFS/">my website</A>.

=begin text

    You can download Filesys::SamFS from CPAN and from my website at
    http://www.lupe-christoph.de/Personal/Perl/Filesys-SamFS/

=end text

=head2 Prerequisites

=over 15

=item perl 5.005_03

While it is quite possible that this module will work with earlier
versions, it has only been tested with this version.

=for html
<P></P>

=item SamFS

Tested with versions 3.3.0-40, 3.3.1-15, and 3.5.0-28.
NOT TESTED WITH 4.x by the author!

=back

=head2 NOTE

The author does not have access to a SamFS installation anymore.
It is thus vitally important for him to receive YOUR feedback
about any if small problem you encounter.

Because it is very hard to develop test code without the ability to
test it, additional test code written by YOU is very welcome.

=head2 Build/Installation

Standard build/installation supported by ExtUtils::MakeMaker(3)...

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install

If you run into problems because you older SamFS does not define some
of the new features, try running

        perl Makefile.PL -DOLD_SAMFS

Note that the ndevstat() call in the API only works for the superuser.
Consequently, t/03ndevstat.t will fail unless it is run by root.
You can do this with this command:

	su root -c '/usr/ccs/bin/make test'

=head2 Author

=for html
<A HREF="mailto:lupe@lupe-christoph.de">Lupe Christoph</A>

=begin text

    Lupe Christoph <lupe@lupe-christoph.de>

=end text

=head2 Webpage

=for html
Filesys::SamFS has its own <A HREF="http://www.lupe-christoph.de/Personal/Perl/Filesys-SamFS/">webpage</A>.

=begin text

    Filesys::SamFS has its own webpage at
    http://www.lupe-christoph.de/Personal/Perl/Filesys-SamFS/ .

=end text

