=head1 NAME

Crypt::NSS::X509 - Perl interface for the certificate handling parts of the NSS api.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use 5.10.1;
  use Perl6::Slurp;

  use Crypt::NSS::X509;

  my $cert = Crypt::X509::NSS::Certificate->new(slurp('derfile'));

  say $cert->subject();
  say $cert->issuer();

  my $valid = $cert->verify_cert();
  
  if ( ! $cert->match_name('www.testdomain') ) {
    # Domain does not match certificate information
    exit(1);
  }


=head1 ABSTRACT

Perl interface for the certificate handling parts of the NSS API.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This library exposes a relatively simple API to a the NSS certificate
API. It allows a user to load certificates, examine them by getting e.g.
the subject, issuer, validity times and other information. 

Furthermore, a user can validate a certificate with several of the 
verification functions provided by NSS.

Please note that this is a very early version of the library, the interface
API will change.

This document just describes the NSS class and how to load it; for certificate
parsing you probably want to refer to L<Crypt::NSS::X509::Certificate>

=head2 EXPORT

None.

=head2 INITIALIZATION

The NSS module can be loaded in two different ways. The simplest way is to 
load the module without any options.

  use NSS;

In this case, the NSS library is initialized without any disk based database.
It is not possible to load certificates and store them permanently. This mode
is primarily useful when no certificate verification is desired.

The second way to load NSS is to specify the path to a database directory at
load time. The directory has to exist. If no NSS database exists in the 
specified directory, it is automatically generated

  use NSS (':dpath', $dbdir);

A third option for loading NSS without any initialization is also offered.
It should however not be used in normal operation - about the only
reason to use it is if you have to switch between several different root-stores
while running a script. If you absolutely need it, examine the source :).

=head1 FUNCTIONS

Note that all functions are called as B<functions, not methods>.

=over 4

=item B<Crypt::NSS::X509::load_rootlist($filename)>

This function reads a list of pem-formatted certificates from C<$filename>.
The certificates are then loaded into the NSS database and marked as valid,
trusted root-certificates.

Note that this function requires a NSS database.

=item B<Crypt::NSS::X509::add_cert_to_db($cert, $nick)>

This function adds a specified C<Crypt::NSS::X509::Certificate> to the active NSS database
and stores it using the nickname C<$nick>.

=item B<Crypt::NSS::X509::add_trusted_cert_to_db($cert, $nick)>

This function adds a specified C<Crypt::NSS::X509::Certificate> to the active NSS database
and stores it using the nickname c<$nick>. The certificate is marked as trusted
for all purposes. Used by C<Crypt::NSS::X509::load_rootlist> to add the certificates.

=item B<Crypt::NSS::X509::dump_certificate_cache_info()>

This function dumps the current contents of the NSS certificate cache and
the NSS temporary certificate store to the standard output

=item B<Crypt::NSS::X509::_reinit()>

This function shuts down the NSS library and reinitialized it again with the
exact same parameters. Do not use this if you do not absolutely know what
this encompasses / why it might be necessary. 

=back

=head2 Certificate usages

You can specify several different certificate usages for the verify functions in
L<Crypt::NSS::X509::Certificate>.

=over 4

=item certUsageAnyCA

CA certificate of any kind.

=item certUsageEmailRecipient

Used to encrypt S/MIME mails.

=item certUsageEmailSigner

Used to verify S/MIME email signatures.

=item certUsageObjectSigner

Certificate allowed to sign executable code files like jar files.

=item certUsageSSLCA

SSL Certificate Authority certificate.

=item certUsageSSLClient

SSL Client certificate.

=item certUsageSSLServer

SSL Server certificate.

=item certUsageSSLServerWithStepUp

SSL Server certificate, which allows export clients to use strong cryptography.

=item certUsageStatusResponder

Used for OCSP responders.

=item certUsageProtectedObjectSigner
=item certUsageUserCertImport
=item certUsageVerifyCA

TODO: Find out what those do.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

OpenSSL(1), Crypt::X509, Crypt::NSS

=head1 AUTHOR

Johanna Amann, E<lt>johanna@icir.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 by Johanna Amann

This Library is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.

The library contains source code of the Mozilla Network Security Services; for
NSS license information please see http://www.mozilla.org/projects/security/pki/nss/.

=cut

