
=head1 NAME

HTML::DOM::Element::Input - A Perl class for representing 'input' elements in an HTML DOM tree

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.054

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use HTML::DOM;
  $doc = HTML::DOM->new;
  $elem = $doc->createElement('input');
  $elem->setAttribute('type' => 'text');

  $elem->click();
  $elem->blur();
  # etc.

  $elem->checked(1) # set attribute
  $elem->type;      # get attribute
  $elem->tagName;
  # etc.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class implements 'input' elements in an HTML::DOM tree. It 
implements the HTMLInputElement DOM interface and inherits from 
L<HTML::DOM::Element> (q.v.).

=head1 METHODS

In addition to those inherited from HTML::DOM::Element and its 
superclasses, this class implements the following DOM methods:

=over 4

=item defaultValue

=item defaultChecked

=item accept

=item accessKey

=item align

=item alt

=item disabled

=item maxLength

=item name

=item readOnly

=item size

=item src

=item tabIndex

=item type

=item useMap

Each of these returns the corresponding HTML attribute (the 'value' and
'checked' attributes
in the case of C<defaultValue> and C<defaultChecked>, respectively). If you 
pass an
argument, it will become the new value of the attribute, and the old value
will be returned.

=item form

Returns the form containing this input element.

=item checked

=item value

These methods allow one to change the state of the input field. The change 
is not reflected in the HTML attributes. These will be called with the 
values of C<defaultValue> and
C<defaultChecked> when the form's C<reset> method is invoked.

The C<value> method behaves differently if the calling package is HTML::Form, HTML::Form::Input or
WWW::Mechanize. For checkboxes, the return value will be undef if the box 
is not checked.
With an undef argument the box will be unchecked. If an argument is given
that is the same as the 'value' attribute, the box will be checked. If any
other argument is passed, it will die. If the 'type' attribute is 'button' or 'reset,' C<value> will simply return.

=item blur

=item focus

=item select

=item click

Each of these triggers the corresponding event. The C<click> method can 
take
three arguments, all optional: (0) the form, (1) the x-coordinate where the
mouse supposedly clicked and (2) the y-coordinate.

=back

In addition, the following methods are provided for compatibility with 
L<WWW::Mechanize>:

=over 4

=item possible_values

This returns an empty list for most input elements, but for checkboxes it
returns C<(undef, $value)>.

=item form_name_value

Returns a list of two items: (0) the name of the field and (1) the value.

=item file

An alias for C<value>

=item filename

This get/sets the filename reported to the server during file upload.
This attribute defaults to the value reported by the file() method.

=item headers

Returns an empty list (for now).

=item content

This get/sets the file content provided to the server during file
upload.  This method can be used if you do not want the content to be
read from an actual file.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<HTML::DOM>

L<HTML::DOM::Element>

L<HTML::DOM::Element::Form>

L<HTML::Form>
