
=head1 NAME

HTML::DOM::Element::TextArea - A Perl class for representing 'textarea' elements in an HTML DOM tree

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.054

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use HTML::DOM;
  $doc = HTML::DOM->new;
  $elem = $doc->createElement('textarea');

  $elem->focus();
  $elem->blur();
  # etc.

  $elem->value('some text') # set attribute
  $elem->rows;              # get attribute
  $elem->tagName;
  # etc.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class implements 'textarea' elements in an HTML::DOM tree. It 
implements the HTMLTextAreaElement DOM interface and inherits from 
L<HTML::DOM::Element> (q.v.).

=head1 METHODS

In addition to those inherited from HTML::DOM::Element and its 
superclasses, this class implements the following DOM methods:

=over 4

=item accessKey

=item cols

=item disabled

=item name

=item readOnly

=item rows

=item tabIndex

Each of these returns the corresponding HTML attribute. If you 
pass an
argument, it will become the new value of the attribute, and the old value
will be returned.

=item defaultValue

Returns the text content of the element. B<This currently does not work if
the 'textarea' element has more than one child>.

=item form

Returns the form containing this input element.

=item type

Returns the string 'textarea'.

=item value

This method allows one to change the current value of the input field. The 
change 
is not reflected in the HTML tree. This will be called with the 
value of C<defaultValue> when the form's C<reset> method is invoked.

=item blur

=item focus

=item select

Each of these triggers the corresponding event.

=back

In addition, the following methods are provided for compatibility with 
L<WWW::Mechanize>:

=over 4

=item possible_values

This returns an empty list.

=item form_name_value

Returns a list of two items: (0) the name of the field and (1) the value.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<HTML::DOM>

L<HTML::DOM::Element>

L<HTML::DOM::Element::Form>
