
=head1 NAME

HTML::DOM::Element::TR - A Perl class for representing table rows in an HTML DOM tree

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.054

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use HTML::DOM;
  $doc = HTML::DOM->new;
  $elem = $doc->createElement('tr');
  
  $elem->vAlign('top'); # set attribute
  $elem->align;         # get attribute
  $elem->tagName;
  # etc
  
  $elem->cells->[0]; # first cell
  ($elem->cells)[0]; # same
  
  $cell = $elem->insertCell(7);
  $elem->deleteCell(1);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class implements 'tr' elements in an HTML::DOM 
tree. 
It 
implements the HTMLTableRowElement DOM interface and inherits from 
L<HTML::DOM::Element> (q.v.).

=head1 METHODS

In addition to those inherited from HTML::DOM::Element and its 
superclasses, this class implements the following DOM methods:

=over 4

=item rowIndex

Returns the index of this row within the table.

=item sectionRowIndex

Returns the index of this row within its parent table section. (See
L<HTML::DOM::Element::TableSection>.)

=item cells

This returns a collection of the table row's cells.

=item align

=item bgColor

=item ch

=item chOff

=item vAlign

Each of these returns the corresponding HTML attribute. (C<ch> and C<chOff>
correspond to 'char' and 'charoff,' respectively.) If you pass an
argument, it will become the new value of the attribute, and the old value
will be returned.

=item insertCell

Insert a new cell at the given index and returns it.

=item deleteCell

Deletes the cell at the given index.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<HTML::DOM>

L<HTML::DOM::Element>

L<HTML::DOM::Element::Table>

L<HTML::DOM::Element::TableSection>

L<HTML::DOM::Element::TableCell>
