# ABSTRACT: Guide for setting up a PlugAuth server.
# VERSION
# PODNAME: PlugAuth::Guide::Server

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

PlugAuth::Guide::Server - Guide for setting up a PlugAuth server.

=head1 VERSION

version 0.38

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document provides a quickstart guide for setting up a PlugAuth server using
the default authentication and authorization plugins.  In addition to installing
L<PlugAuth> you will need to have L<PlugAuth::Client> installed which comes as a
separate distribution.

=head2 Default

Here is a quick start for setting up L<PlugAuth> with the default plugins.

=over 4

=item * create directory

You will need to create directories for the server configuration as well as the
authentication and authorization database.  You can use the per-user configuration
(~/etc/PlugAuth.conf) or the system-wide configuration (/etc/PlugAuth.conf).  In
this guide, we will use the per-user configuration.

 % mkdir ~/etc
 % mkdir -p ~/var/plugauth

=item * create configuration

Create the configuration file ~/etc/PlugAuth.conf using your favorite 
editor.

 ---
 url: http://localhost:3000
 
 user_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/user.txt
 group_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/group.txt
 resource_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/resource.txt
 host_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/host.txt

Note this configuration is a template using L<Mojo::Template> and is in L<YAML> format.
In this example, I'm using the C<home> helper from L<Clustericious::Config::Helpers>
to dynamically find the user's home directory, so that if the user's home directory
is moved, or a different user is used later the configuration does not need to be changed.

=item * create database files

Create empty database files for the users, groups, resources and hosts.  To start
out with they only need to be empty files:

 % touch ~/var/plugauth/{user,group,resource,host}.txt

=item * run server

Start the PlugAuth service using the default L<hypnotoad> web server.  Note that the
service will be running I<without> authentication or authorization running so be
sure it is listening only to localhost:

 % plugauth start

=item * create admin user

Create an admin user, and give that user permission to change passwords, and administrate
users, groups and permissions:

 % plugauthclient create_user --user admin --password secret
 --- ok
 % plugauthclient grant admin change_password /user
 --- ok
 % plugauthclient grant admin accounts /
 --- ok

Make sure that the password is correct using the L<plugauthclient> auth command.

 % plugauthclient auth
 Username for  at localhost :  [default bob] admin
 Password: ********
 --- ok

=item * stop server

Stop the PlugAuth service.

 % plugauth stop

=item * configure

Make PlugAuth authenticate and authorize against itself using the 
I<plug_auth> configuration.  Your PlugAuth.conf should look like this:

 ---
 url: http://localhost:3000
 
 user_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/user.txt
 group_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/group.txt
 resource_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/resource.txt
 host_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/host.txt
 plug_auth:
   url: http://localhost:3000

(the last two lines having been added).

=item * restart server

Restart the PlugAuth server, this time optionally listening to multiple addresses
now that it has been locked down and only the admin user can modify the 
authentication and authorization for the PlugAuth server.

 % plugauth start

=item * create user

Create a regular user.  This time PlugAuth should ask you for a username and password.

 % plugauthclient create_user --user foo --password bar
 Username for "PlugAuth" at localhost :	[default bob] admin
 Password: --- ok
 % plugauthclient user
 ---
 - admin
 - foo

=back

=head2 More Secure

Instead of creating the admin account using L<plugauthclient>, you can use the Apache
htpasswd command and a basic text editor.  

=over 4

=item * create configuration

Do as above, but create your configuration initially with I<plug_auth> set in your 
PlugAuth.conf file:

 ---
 url: http://localhost:3000
 user_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/user.txt
 group_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/group.txt
 resource_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/resource.txt
 host_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/host.txt
 plug_auth:
   url: http://localhost:3000

=item * create admin user

Use htpasswd to create the admin user:

 % htpasswd -m ~/var/plugauth/user.txt admin
 New password: 
 Re-type new password: 
 Adding password for user admin

B<Note>: If you have access to the user.txt file you can use this mechanism for creating
users and changing passwords as an alternative to L<plugauthclient>.

Using your favorite text editor, add these lines to the ~/var/plugauth/resource.txt file:

 /user (change_password) : admin
 /user (accounts) : admin
 /group (accounts) : admin
 /grant (accounts) : admin

=back

=head2 LDAP

You can use an LDAP server for authentication instead of or in addition to the flat files
provided by the default plugin.  This requires L<PlugAuth::Plugin::LDAP>, which is NOT
included with the L<PlugAuth> distribution.

=over 4

=item * create configuration

Just like the default configuration, but add a ldap stanza to the configuration.

 ---
 url: http://localhost:3000
 user_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/user.txt
 group_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/group.txt
 resource_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/resource.txt
 host_file: <%= home %>/var/plugauth/host.txt
 plug_auth:
   url: http://localhost:3000
 ldap:
   server: ldap://1.2.3.4:389
   dn: uid=%s, ou=people, dc=users, dc=foo, dc=com
   authoritative: 1

Set authoritative to 1 to ignore the user.txt file for authentication (though it will still
be used as a list of users), and set it to 0 to use both user.txt and LDAP for authentication.

=back

=head2 Others

There are other plugins for details on how they work, see the plugin documentation.

L<PlugAuth::Plugin::DBIAuth>, L<PlugAuth::Plugin::AuthenSimple>. L<PlugAuth::Plugin::LDAP>

=for stopwords auth

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<PlugAuth>

=head1 AUTHOR

Graham Ollis <gollis@sesda3.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2012 by NASA GSFC.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
