
=head1 INSTALLATION


=head2 UNIX

To install on unix perform the following steps:

=over

=item B<Unpack the archive>

=item B<perl Makefile.PL>

You will be asked if you want to compile in support for Apache mod_perl. If
you say yes, the source of Apache is searched (for headerfiles). If 
it can't found, please specify the basepath. Please make sure 
mod_perl is already installed. If you have installed mod_perl-0.96 or
higher, Makefile.PL automatically suggests the same source path as was 
used to build mod_perl.

=item B<make>

=item B<make test>

=item  B<make install>

=back


B<NOTE 1:> For using session handling you need
Apache::Session 1.53 and Apache::SessionX 2.00b3 or higher. 

B<NOTE 2:> I<Embperl> runs without additional Perl modules, but the C<make test>
needs the following modules to work:

=over 4

=item * URI

=item * MIME::Base64 

=item * HTML::Parser 

=item * HTML::HeadParser 

=item * Digest::MD5 

=item * libnet 

=item * libwww 

=item * libwin32 (only Win32) 

=back

B<NOTE 3:> I<EmbperlObject> needs the following modules to work:

=over 4

=item * File::Spec 0.8 or higher

=back

If you have already successfully build and tested C<mod_perl> all modules
will already be there.

=head2 Options for make test

C<make test> can take several options, which can be given with the C<TESTARGS>
parameter:

  make test TESTARGS="--help"

will show you a list of available option. Most of them you will never need,
they are mainly nesseccary for debugging I<Embperl> itself.

=head2 XML and XSLT support

Starting with Embperl 2.0b4 it has a build in XSLT support. You can
use Gnome libxml and libxslt.
Embperl is currently tested with libxslt 1.0.4 and newer.

To use libxml/libxslt, download them from http://xmlsoft.org/ and install
them on your system. Makefile.PL will automatically detect the installed
libraries and linked them into Embperl. (you have to make sure
that xml2-config and xslt-config can be found and run by Makefile.PL)


=head2 Debian packages

The Debian packages "libhtml-embperl-perl" and "libembperl-perl" are
are available from the usual Debian
mirrors.

To compile Embperl you need to install apache2-dev and libapache2-mod-perl2-dev.

=head2 UNIX (without Apache Source)

If you have an UNIX with preinstalled Apache and mod_perl (e.g. a Linux 
distribution), you need to locate the following files on your disk:

=over

=item httpd.h

=item httpd

=item mod_env.so

=back

For example in SuSE Linux 7.1 they could be found at

=over

=item /usr/include/apache/httpd.h

=item /usr/sbin/httpd

=item /usr/lib/apache/mod_env.so

=back

In most cases it is sufficent to have to apache-dev and mod_perl-dev packages
from your favourite Linux distribution installed.


Now go to the Embperl directory and start 

=over

=item perl Makefile.PL

When get asked for the Apache sources, enter the directory where you
found C<httpd.h> (e.g. C</usr/include/apache>). For the Apache executable
enter the path to C<httpd>. If the Apache modules are loaded dynamicly,
the you will get ask for C<mod_env.so>, enter it's directory. Now you can
continue as normal with

=item make test

=item make install

=back


=head2 Win32 (non ActiveState Perl)


B<NOTE:> You need mod_perl >= 1.12 on win32


On Windows 95/NT you have to do the following:

=over

=item B<perl Makefile.PL>

=item B<nmake> 

(you must have the c compiler in your path)
if you get an error about compiling Embperl.c. Edit Embperl.c and change

-#line  "Embperl.xs"

to

+#line  1 "Embperl.xs"

now re-run nmake and it should compile.

=item B<nmake test>

B<NOTE:> nmake test needs libwin32, libwww and HTML::Parser installed to work

=item B<nmake install>

=back


B<NOTE 1:> For using session handling you need
Apache::Session 1.53 and Apache::SessionX 2.00b3 or higher. 

B<NOTE 2:> I<Embperl> runs without additional Perl modules, but the C<make test>
needs the following modules to work:

=over 4

=item * URI

=item * MIME::Base64 

=item * HTML::Parser 

=item * HTML::HeadParser 

=item * Digest::MD5 

=item * libnet 

=item * libwww 

=item * libwin32 (only Win32) 

=back

B<NOTE 3:> I<EmbperlObject> needs the following modules to work:

=over 4

=item * File::Spec 0.8 or higher

=back

If you have already successfully build and tested C<mod_perl> all modules
will already be there.


=head2 Win32 with ActiveState Perl and Apache 1.3.x

First get and install ActiveState Perl from http://www.activestate.com/

You can skip the installation of Apache and mod_perl, if you only want
to use Embperl offline or as CGI.

Next get the Apache binary (including the source e.g.
apache_1.3.31-win32-x86-src.msi) from
http://www.apache.org/dist/httpd/binaries/win32/ or a mirror. (You may
need to install the windows MSI installer from the same page too, and
be sure to read the README at the end of the file list for further
requirements of some windows versions, especially Windows 95 and
XP). Now run the installation.

Then install mod_perl. How to do this is described very detailed at
http://perl.apache.org/docs/1.0/os/win32/install.html#PPM_Packages

In this file, you'll find a short summary of that page.

There are two ways to install mod_perl:

+ Easy version:

  Download the perl script
  http://perl.apache.org/docs/1.0/os/win32/mpinstall and execute it
  with "perl mpinstall". It will interactively install you the right
  mod_perl version.

+ Manual installation:

  Run the ppm program to install mod_perl

  - If you have Perl 5.8.x:

    ppm install http://theoryx5.uwinnipeg.ca/ppms/mod_perl-1.ppd

  - If you have Perl 5.6.x:

    ppm install http://theoryx5.uwinnipeg.ca/ppmpackages/mod_perl.ppd


  If you get asked for the Apache directory, enter the C<modules>
  subdirectory under the path where you have installed your Apache,
  e.g.

    \Program Files\Apache Group\Apache\modules

As last step you can install the Embperl ppd:

+ If you have Perl 5.8.x:

    ppm install http://theoryx5.uwinnipeg.ca/ppms/Embperl-1.ppd

  This is an Embperl 2 ppd, the "-1" at the end of the package name
  denotes that this ppd is for mod_perl 1.x. There is no Embperl 1 ppd
  for Perl 5.8.x (yet).

+ If you have Perl 5.6.x:

  - Embperl 1:

    ppm install http://theoryx5.uwinnipeg.ca/ppmpackages/HTML-Embperl.ppd

  - Embperl 2:

    ppm install http://theoryx5.uwinnipeg.ca/ppmpackages/Embperl.ppd



=head2 Compile Embperl from the sources on Win32 with ActiveState Perl

First install ActiveState Perl, Apache and mod_perl as described above. Make sure
you have an Apache version which includes the sources. (Of course when you want to use
Embperl only offline or as CGI you don't have to install Apache and mod_perl)

Then extract the Embperl distribution and go to the directory where you have extracted
Embperl. Start

  perl Makefile.PL

Enter y or hit enter when you get ask "Build with support for Apache mod_perl?(y/n) [y]"
When get asked for the Apache source enter the Apache directory you have installed above.
e.g. \Program Files\Apache Group.

Now you can continue by running 

  nmake test
  nmake install  


=head2 Win32: Install Apache and non Apache version on the same system

Unlike Unix, Windows loads any needed DLL (dynamic libraries) at startup. This 
causes trouble when Embperl is compiled for use with Apache and mod_perl, but 
is used outside of Apache, because Windows tries to load F<ApacheCore.dll>.
To solve this problem Embperl 1.3.4+ can install a Apache and a non Apache
version. To do this first install the Apache version as decribed above 
(includeing the C<nmake install>) . 
Afterwards rerun Makefile.PL, when ask for mod_perl support answer no, now
Makefile.PL detects that a mod_perl version was already compiled and asks
if you what a separte non Apache version. Just say yes here and compile
and install this version too. When Embperl is loaded it detects if runs in-
or outside of Apache and loads the correct library.

=head2 Win32: Apache 2.0

Embperl currently does not support Apache 2.0 on Windows (on UNIX is does). 
This is due to the fact the Embperl is not fully thread safe yet. 
Makeing Embperl thread safe and support for Apache 2.0 on Windows, is
currently under development.

=head2 How to continue


B<IMPORTANT:> Before using Embperl 2.0, make sure you have read the
README.v2. The documentation is only partially updated to 2.0 yet!!

You can view the documentation at any time from the Embperl source directory,
by using the following commands metioned below. After the installation you can
also view documention by specifying the full module name: e.g.

perldoc Embperl, perldoc Embperl::Intro etc.

To get familiar how Embperl works, read the L<"Intro"|"Intro.pod"> and
L<"IntroEmbperlObject"|"IntroEmbperlObject.pod"> documents. 
To learn how to use and configure Embperl, read the L<"Embperl documentation"|"Embperl.pod">.


=head2 Further Documentation


See L<"perldoc Features"|"Features.pod"> for list of Embperls features 

See L<"perldoc Intro"|"Intro.pod"> for an step by step 
introduction to Embperl.

See L<"perldoc IntroEmbperlObject"|"IntroEmbperlObject.pod"> for an step by step 
introduction to the OO features of Embperl.

See L<"perldoc IntroEmbperl2.pod"|"IntroEmbperl2.pod"> for Introduction to Embperl 2 
advanced features.

See L<"perldoc Config"|"Config.pod"> for configuration and calling Embperl.

See L<"perldoc Embperl"|"Embperl.pod"> for complete documentation.

See L<"perldoc TipsAndTricks"|"TipsAndTricks.pod"> for Tips and Tricks 
around Embperl.

or you can view it online on http://perl.apache.org/embperl/
and http://www.ecos.de/embperl/


