
=head1 NAME

SVN - Access to the Embperl SVN development tree

=head1 SVN Access

The Embperl development tree lives on the machine 
svn.apache.org.  This tree contains the latest Embperl bug fixes and
developments that have not made it to CPAN yet.  Welcome to the
bleeding edge. 

Just like SVN access to the Apache development tree, the Embperl code
pulled from SVN is not guaranteed to do anything, especially not
compile or work.  But - that's exactly why we are using SVN - so that
everyone has access the latest version and can help ensure  that
Embperl does compile and work on all platforms, with the various
versions and configurations of Perl and Apache, once it is really 
supposed to.  Patches are always
welcome. Simply testing the latest snapshots is just as (if not 
even more)
helpful. 



=head2 Anonymous Subversion

To access the Subversion repositories anonymously, you will need a Subversion client. 
You can also browse the ASF projects that are using Subversion with a Webbroswer via
http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/.

Embperl can be found at the URL http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/perl/embperl/

To check it out use

  svn checkout http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/perl/embperl/trunk embperl

To keep it up to date go into the embperl directory and run

  svn up

For more help on using Subversion, consult the Subversion website (http://subversion.tigris.org/)
or Subversion book (http://svnbook.red-bean.com/). 
The web site provides a list of clients and useful links (http://subversion.tigris.org/project_links.html).


=head2 web-access

As mentioned above you can browser the svn repository directly with a webbrowser at
http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/perl/embperl

A more confortable way is to use http://svn.apache.org/viewcvs.cgi/perl/embperl/


=head2 Snapshot

A snapshot is rolled off the Embperl tree every 6 hours and placed
here:

http://svn.apache.org/snapshots/embperl/


=head2 Embperl 1.x

There is no further development in the Embperl 1.x branch, but case it
will become necessary you can access the Embperl 1.x code via the branch
B<ep1>, so when you checkout just run


    svn checkout http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/perl/embperl/branches/ep1/


=head2 MAILING LIST

There is a SVN mailing list for Embperl (This is SVN - B<not> a list for asking
questions about Embperl!!!). This list receives all changes which are
committed to the SVN. If you want to know what's going on which Embperl,
you can subscribe by sending a mail to B<embperl-CVS-request@perl.apache.org>
with B<subscribe> in the body.

=head2 Building from SVN sources

Before you can build Embperl from sources that are checked out from the SVN, you need
to generate some glue code. This is done by the module ExtUtils::XSBuilder, so you
need to install it first from CPAN. When it's installed run:

    perl xsbuilder/source_scan.pl
    perl xsbuilder/xs_generate.pl
    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install



