=head1 NAME

Embperl::TOC - Embperl Documenation: Table of Contents

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Embperl can be used in many ways and it's documentation doesn't fit in
one man pages. The following documentation is available within the
distribution and the installed system using perldoc(1) or man(1):

=head1 CONTENT

  Installation Documentation
  Embperl::Features
  Embperl::Intro
  Embperl::IntroEmbperl2
  Embperl::Config
  Embperl
  Embperl::Object
  Embperl::Form
  Embperl::Form::Validate
  Embperl::Mail
  Embperl::Inline
  Embperl::Recipe
  Embperl::Syntax
  Embperl::Syntax::ASP
  Embperl::Syntax::Embperl
  Embperl::Syntax::EmbperlBlocks
  Embperl::Syntax::HTML
  Embperl::Syntax::EmbperlHTML
  Embperl::Syntax::Mail
  Embperl::Syntax::MsgIdExtract
  Embperl::Syntax::Perl
  Embperl::Syntax::POD
  Embperl::Syntax::RTF
  Embperl::Syntax::SSI
  Embperl::Syntax::Text
  Embperl::TipsAndTricks
  Sourcecode encryption
  Changes

=head1 INSTALLATION DOCUMENTATION

See perldoc L<INSTALL.pod> in the distribution archive.



=head1 OVERVIEW DOCUMENTATION

Introductionary texts



=head1 L<Embperl::Features> (perldoc Features.pod)

List of the main features of Embperl 2.0



=head1 L<Embperl::Intro> (perldoc Intro.pod)

Embperl basics: What is Embperl? How to embed perl code in HTML
documents; Flow Control; Dynamic Tables; Form Processing; Maintaining
persistent (session) data; Breaking up your code in components;
Debugging; Database Access; Security; Escaping/Unescaping.



=head1 L<Embperl::IntroEmbperl2> (perldoc IntroEmbperl2.pod)

Introduction to the new features in Embperl 2 considering the Embperl
homepage as example.



=head1 L<Embperl::IntroEmbperlObject> (perldoc IntroEmbperlObject.pod)

Introduction to building object-oriented websites and web applications
with Embperl



=head1 FULL DOCUMENTATION

Detailed references



=head1 L<Embperl::Config> (perldoc Config.pod)

Using Embperl with mod_perl, CGI, FastCGI, offline or from
Perl. Includes documentation for Embperl::Execute() and
documentation for all Embperl internal objects and
their methods. You also find here all of Embperl's Apache
configuration directives.



=head1 L<Embperl>

Describes syntax, semantic, predefined variables, session handling,
etc.



=head1 L<Embperl::Object> 

Building object-oriented websites and web applications with Embperl



=head1 L<Embperl::Form>

=head1 L<Embperl::Form::Validate>

Automatically creating and verifying forms with Embperl 



=head1 L<Embperl::Mail>

Sending mails generated with Embperl, e.g. results of submitted forms.



=head1 L<Embperl::Inline>

Using Embperl syntax in Perl modules.



=head1 L<Embperl::Recipe>

Defining Embperl recipes and provider



=head1 L<Embperl::Syntax>

Defining Embperl syntax.

Modules derived from Embperl::Syntax and shipped with Embperl:



=head2 L<Embperl::Syntax::ASP>

ASP syntax module (<% ... %>)



=head2 L<Embperl::Syntax::Embperl>

Embperl syntax module: provides the default syntax, includes
Embperl::Syntax::EmbperlBlocks, Embperl::Syntax::EmbperlHTML and
Embperl::Syntax::MsgIdExtract..

=head2 L<Embperl::Syntax::EmbperlBlocks>

Syntax module for Embperl blocks

=head2 L<Embperl::Syntax::HTML>

=head2 L<Embperl::Syntax::EmbperlHTML>

Syntax module for dynamic tables, forms, etc.

=head2 L<Embperl::Syntax::Mail>

Taglib providing an HTML like syntax for sending mail

=head2 L<Embperl::Syntax::MsgIdExtract>

Syntax module for internationalisation via Embperl's [= =] blocks.

=head2 L<Embperl::Syntax::Perl>

Perl syntax module, allowing Embperl to execute files with normal Perl
syntax.

=head2 L<Embperl::Syntax::POD>

POD syntax module, converting Perl Plain Old Documentation files on
the fly into XML.

=head2 L<Embperl::Syntax::RTF>

Syntax module to define the syntax for Rich Text Format (RTF) files

=head2 L<Embperl::Syntax::SSI>

Syntax module to emulate Apache's mod_include syntax with Embperl.

=head2 L<Embperl::Syntax::Text>

Syntax module to literally include any file without interpretation.



=head1 TIPS, TRICKS AND EXAMPLES

=head1 L<Embperl::TipsAndTricks> (perldoc TipsAndTricks.pod)

Alternative way to do global variables; Global variables via
namespaces; Handling queries in DBI; Handling exits; Handling errors;
Development and production websites.

As an example how Embperl can be used, the sourcecode of the Embperl
website (see http://perl.apache.org/embperl/) is contained in the
directory eg/ of the Embperl distribution archive. Read L<eg/README>
of the Embperl distribution archive for an overview.



=head1 Sourcecode encryption

See L<crypto/README> of the Embperl distribution archive.



=head1 CHANGES

See perldoc L<Changes.pod>


=head1 AUTHOR

G. Richter (richter at embperl dot org), A. Beckert (beckert@ecos.de)
