=pod

=head1 NAME

NexposeSimpleXML::Parser - Parse NeXpose scan data with Perl

=head1 VERSION

This document describes the latest version of NexposeSimpleXML::Parser.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $nxp = new NexposeSimpleXML::Parser;

 my $parser = $nxp->parse_file('test1.xml');
    #a NexposeSimpleXML::Parser Object

 my @host = $parser->get_all_hosts();
    #an Array of NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Host Objects

 my $host1 = $hosts[0];
 
 my @services = $host1->get_all_services();
    #an Array of NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Host::Service Objects
 
 my $service1 = $services[0];

 my @vulnerabilities = $host1->get_all_vulnerabilities();
    #an Array of NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Vulnerabilities Objects for 
    #the host OS. 
 
    or

 my @vulnerabilities = $service1->get_all_vulnerabilities();
    #an Array of NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Vulnerabilities Objects for 
    #this service. 
 
 my $vulnerability1 = $vulnerabilities[0];

 my @references = $$vulnerability1->get_all_references();
    #an Array of NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::References Objects for this 
    #specific vulnerability. 
 
I<For a full listing of methods see the documentation corresponding to each object.>

=head1 DESCRIPTION


=head1 OVERVIEW


 NexposeSimpleXML::Parser			-- Core parser
 |
 +--NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Session           -- NeXpose scan session information
 |
 +--NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Vulnerabilitiy    -- Vulnerability information
 |
 +--NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Reference         -- Reference for vulnerability data
 |
 +--NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Fingerprint       -- Fingerprint information (os or service)
 |  
 +--NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Host              -- General host information
 |  |
 |  |--NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Service        -- Port information
 |  |  |


=head1 METHODS

=head2 NexposeSimpleXML::Parser

The main idea behind the core modules is, you will first parse the
scan data then extract the information. Therefore, you should run
parse_file or parse_scan then the you can use any of the get_*
methods.

=over 4

=item B<parse_file($xml_file)>

Parse a NeXpose SimpleXML file. 

=item B<get_session()>

Obtain the NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Session object which contains the session scan information.

=item B<get_all_hosts()>

Obtain an Array of NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Host objects which contain host information.

=back

=head2 NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Session

This object contains the scan session information of the NeXpose scan.

=over 4


=item B<generated()>

Returns the timestamp the report was generated.

=back

=head2 NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Host

This object contains the information for a host.

=over 4

=item B<address()>

Returns a string which contains the ip of this host.

=item B<get_all_services()>

Returns an array of NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Host::Service objects, which represent
the services that this host has open.

=item B<get_port($port)>

Obtain a NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Host::Service object which contains the service information.

=item B<get_all_ports()>

Obtain an Array of NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Host::Service objects which contain port information.

=item B<get_fingerprint()>

Obtain a NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Fingerprint object which contain the fingerprint of the OS for this host.

=back

=head2 NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Fingerprint

This object contains the fingerprint details for the OS or service.

=over 4

=item B<certainty()>

Returns a string which contains the certainty of this fingerprint.

=item B<description()>

Returns a string which contains the description this fingerprint. Example of an OS fingerprint: Ubuntu Linux 8.10

=item B<vendor()>

Returns a string which contains the vendor this fingerprint. Example of an OS fingerprint: Ubuntu


=item B<family()>

Returns a string which contains the family of this fingerprint. Example of an OS fingerprint: Linux

=item B<product()>

Returns a string which contains the product of this fingerprint. Example of an OS fingerprint: Linux

=item B<version()>

Returns a string which contains the version of this fingerprint. Example of an OS fingerprint: 8.10


=item B<device_class()>

Returns a string which contains the device_class of this fingerprint. This is undef for a service fingerprint.

=item B<arch()>

Returns a string which contains the arch of this fingerprint. This is undef for a service fingerprint. Exampleo of an OS fingerprint: x86_64

=back

=head2 NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Host::Service

This object contains the information for a port.

=over 4

=item B<name()>

Returns a string which contains the service name.

=item B<protocol()>

Returns a string which contains the protocol.

=item B<port()>

Returns a string which contains the port number.

=item B<get_all_vulnerabilities()>

Returns an Array of NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Vulnerability objects which contain information about the vulnerabilities for this service.

=item B<get_fingerprint()>

Obtain a NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Fingerprint object which contain the fingerprint of the service.

=back

=head2 NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Vulnerability

This object contains the information for vulnerability.

=over 4

=item B<id()>

Returns the id of this vulnerability.

=item B<response_code()>

Returns the response code. This can be VE or VV. VE means 'vulnerable exploited'. VV means 'vulnerable version'.

=item B<get_all_references()>

Returns an Array of NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Reference objects which contain reference details for the vulnerability.

=back 

=head2 NexposeSimpleXML::Parser::Reference

This object contains the reference details for a vulnerability.

=over 4

=item B<id()>

Returns the id of this reference.

=item B<type()>

Returns the type of the reference. Example: cve 

=back 

=head1 EXAMPLES


Here is an example of parsing an XML file using NexposeSimpleXML::Parser:

 my $nxp = new NexposeSimpleXML::Parser;

 my $parser = $nxp->parse_file('test1.xml');

 foreach my $h ( $parser->get_all_hosts() ){
     print "ip: " . $h->address . "\n";
     foreach my $s ( $h->get_all_services() ) {
         print "port: " . $s->port . "\n";
         print "name: " . $s->name . "\n";
         print "protocol: " . $s->protocol . "\n";
     }   
     print "---\n";
 }   

=head1 SEE ALSO

 XML::LibXML and Object::InsideOut
 

=head1 AUTHOR

Joshua D. Abraham, S<E<lt>jabra AT spl0it DOT orgE<gt>>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010 Joshua D. Abraham. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut


