=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Payment::Sisow::SOAP - payments via the SOAP interface of Sisow

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Payment::Sisow::SOAP
   is a Payment::Sisow

=head1 SYNOPSIS

See L<Payment::Sisow|Payment::Sisow>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Sisow (F<http://sisow.nl>) is a Dutch payment broker, which offers a SOAP
and a REST interface for communication.  This class extends their
common interface with SOAP specific features.  Oh, the REST interface is
larger...

The full specification of the SOAP interface can be
L<downloaded from Sisow|http://www.sisow.nl/downloads/WebService.pdf>.
However, the REST specification is more clear about the content of
certain fields.

See L<documentation in the base class|Payment::Sisow/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

See L<documentation in the base class|Payment::Sisow/"METHODS">.
 
=head2 Constructors

See L<documentation in the base class|Payment::Sisow/"Constructors">.
 
=over 4

=item Payment::Sisow::SOAP-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

 -Option      --Defined in     --Default
  merchant_id   Payment::Sisow   <required>
  merchant_key  Payment::Sisow   <required>
  test          Payment::Sisow   <false>

=over 2

=item merchant_id => STRING

=item merchant_key => STRING

=item test => BOOLEAN

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

See L<documentation in the base class|Payment::Sisow/"Accessors">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<isTest>()

See L<Payment::Sisow/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<merchantId>()

See L<Payment::Sisow/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<merchantKey>()

See L<Payment::Sisow/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<wsdl>()

Returns the XML and SOAP handler object, used internally.  It is a
XML::Compile::WSDL11 object.

=back

=head2 Calls

=for trace

local *TRACE;
if(open TRACE, '>', "/tmp/sisow.$$")
{   use Data::Dumper; $Data::Dumper::Indent =1; $Data::Dumper::Quotekeys=1;
    print TRACE Dumper $answer, $trace;
    close TRACE;
}

See L<documentation in the base class|Payment::Sisow/"Calls">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<listIdealBanks>(OPTIONS)

See L<Payment::Sisow/"Calls">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<startTransaction>(OPTIONS)

See L<Payment::Sisow/"Calls">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<transactionInfo>(TRANSACTION_ID)

See L<Payment::Sisow/"Calls">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<transactionStatus>(TRANSACTION_ID)

See L<Payment::Sisow/"Calls">

=back

=head2 Helpers

See L<documentation in the base class|Payment::Sisow/"Helpers">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<isValidDescription>(STRING)

See L<Payment::Sisow/"Helpers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<isValidPurchaseId>(STRING)

See L<Payment::Sisow/"Helpers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<securedPayment>(QS|PAIRS)

See L<Payment::Sisow/"Helpers">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

See L<documentation in the base class|Payment::Sisow/"DETAILS">.
 
=head2 About Sisow

See L<documentation in the base class|Payment::Sisow/"About Sisow">.
 
=head2 errors

Undocumented error codes:   (spec version 1.0)

  317   testing not allowed

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Payment-Sisow distribution version 0.13,
built on January 08, 2014. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2013-2014 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

