=for advent_year 2008

=for advent_day 32

=for advent_title This is a sample

=for advent_author David Westbrook

=for a_non_existent_target some value

=begin quote

First a quote section.

Second verse.

=end quote

B<See the L<sample.pod> file that this HTML was generated from.>

Then an A<http://www.example.com/foo/bar.txt|Example Link>
for a M<Pod::Simple> module.  See also M<Pod::Simple::Subclassing>.
Now we mention M<Pod::Simple> again.
Now we talk about a F<data.txt> file.
And our copy of L<data.txt>.
And a plain A<http://www.example.com> a/href.

And some foot-noted text.N<f1>

=head1 BIG Header (1)

=head2 normal header (2)

=head3 little header (3)

=head4 littlest header (4)

=head2 Other tags

Regular B<bold> and I<italics> work too.

And in-line code such as this C<my $foo=Bar-E<gt>new()> snippet.

And regular pod Verbatim is treated as code:

  my $x = $y;
  $x += 3;

=head2 More code examples

Just a code snippet:

=begin code

foreach my $foo ( @bar ){
  print $foo;
}

my $x;

=end code

A code snippet w/line numbers:

=begin codeNNN

foreach my $foo ( @bar ){
  print $foo;
}

my $bar;

=end codeNNN

And code sourced from the L<sample.pl> file:

=sourcedcode sample.pl

And a specific link to A<#sample.pl.3|the third line>.

And just &lt;pre&gt; tag stuff, e.g. for output or data.

mispelling example. repeating mispelling.

=begin pre

This is just preformatted
       t
         e
           x
             t.
Which is good for output examples.

and more output

=end pre

=begin eds

Editorial section

Testing B<bold> and I<italics> and M<Foo::Bar> module link

=end eds

=begin footnote f1

This is the first footnote.

=end footnote

