=pod

=head1 NAME

Wizard::LDAP::User - A base class for implementing users in the LDAP wizard


=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # From the shell:
  ldapWizard

  # Or, from the WWW:
  <a href="ldap.ep">LDAP administration</a>

  # Follow the "User menu"


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This package implements the handling of user objects in the LDAP server.
It is part of the LDAP wizard.


=head1 CREATING OR EDITING USERS

The following items can be edited in the user window:

=head2 item_ldap_user_uid

This is the users login name, for example

  joe

You should restrict login names to 8 characters.

=head2 item_ldap_user_userpassword

This is the users password. You *must* fill in a password.

=head2 item_ldap_user_cn

This is the users real name, for example

  Jochen Wiedmann

=head2 item_ldap_user_description

This is a single-line description of the user.

=head2 item_ldap_user_mail

This is the users email adress, for example

  joe@ispsoft.de

You may omit the domain part in which case the default domain from the
preferences will automatically be added.

=head2 item_ldap_user_mailforward

If mail for the user must not be stored locally, but forwarded to
an external email account, then you have to fill in this field,
the external email address.

=head2 item_ldap_user_mailforwardtype

This select box determines, when email is being forwarded. It is
ignored, if the mailforward (see above) is empty.

The default is to forward mails always (in other words: Immediately).
You may however choose to wait 1-5 days before forwarding email.
The latter option requires support from your mailserver, for example
by a cron job that takes care of forwarding.

=head2 item_ldap_user_pop3box

If the user has an external POP3 boxes, you may insert them
here, for example

  username@my.pop3.server

The attribute is used by a cron job that is regularly mail from
the remote box. The mail is then forwarded to the user.

This option requires support from your mailserver, for example by a cron
job.

=head2 item_ldap_user_pop3password

Likewise, this is the password being used to fetch mail from the remote
POP3 box, if any.

=head2 item_ldap_user_status

By default users have a status of "mail": In other words, they may read
mail only. They may also have a status of "ftp", in which case they
are accepted to login via FTP or "admin", in which case they have a
regular shell account.

The users status determines its login shell. The possible shells are

  /bin/mailonly
  /bin/ftp_mail
  /bin/bash


=head1 AUTHORS AND COPYRIGHT

This module is

  Copyright (C) 1999     Jochen Wiedmann
                         Am Eisteich 9
                         72555 Metzingen
                         Germany

                         Email: joe@ispsoft.de

                 and     Amarendran R. Subramanian
                         Grundstr. 32
                         72810 Gomaringen
                         Germany

                         Email: amar@ispsoft.de

All Rights Reserved.

You may distribute under the terms of either the GNU
General Public License or the Artistic License, as
specified in the Perl README file.


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Wizard>, L<ldapWizard>, L<HTML::EP>, L<Net::LDAP>

=cut
