=head1 NAME

Leyland::Manual::Deployment - How to deploy Leyland applications

=head1 QUICK-STARTING YOUR APPLICATION

Since Leyland is L<Plack> based, running and deploying your applications
is easy. During development and testing, the quickest way to start your
application is to change into the application's directory and run L<plackup>
with no arguments (or with the name of your PSGI file). This will start
the application under the "development" Plack environment, listening on
port 5000, so you'd be able to point your web browser to L<http://localhost:5000/>
and start testing your app.

=head1 DEPLOYING YOUR APPLICATION

When your application is ready for prime time, Plack's standalone web
server is not a good choice for deployment. When that time comes, you'll
have a lot of choices for deploying your applications. You can use FastCGI
with L<Plack::Handler::FCGI>, or L<Starman> with L<Plack::Handler::Starman>,
or L<Starlet|Plack::Handler::Starlet>, or L<SCGI|Plack::Handler::SCGI>,
or L<Mongrel2|Plack::Handler::Mongrel2>, or basically anything under the
C<Plack::Handler::*> family. Keep in mind, however, that Leyland applications
are not non-blocking nor asynchronous, so you can't use L<Feersum> or
L<Twiggy> or other non-blocking servers (at least not yet).

To learn about deploying your application, refer to L<plackup> and your
handler of choice.

=head1 WHAT'S NEXT?

Read L<Leyland::Manual::Extending> to learn how to extend Leyland and
possibly help with development, or L<return to the table of contents|Leyland::Manual/"TABLE OF CONTENTS">.

=head1 AUTHOR

Ido Perlmuter, C<< <ido at ido50.net> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-Leyland at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Leyland>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

	perldoc Leyland::Manual::Deployment

You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Leyland>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Leyland>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Leyland>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Leyland/>

=back

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2010-2014 Ido Perlmuter.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.

=cut
