=head1 NAME

Leyland::Manual::Exceptions - How to throw HTTP exceptions with Leyland

=head1 HTTP EXCEPTIONS

L<Leyland> is a framework for RESTful web applications. RESTful apps are
expected to respond with proper HTTP status codes, and clearly inform the
client of errors and problems, if they arise. The problem with most web
applications out there is that they return errors with success HTTP status
codes, mostly "200 OK". That's completely wrong.

If you're not that familiar with HTTP status codes, please read Wikipedia's
L<list of HTTP status codes|https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/w/index.php?title=List_of_HTTP_status_codes&oldid=424349307>
first.

Usually, when everything is okay, your application will return a "200 OK"
responses, or "201 Created" responses when new content was created because
of a request, or basically any other 2xx family status. When your application
wants to redirect a request, it will return one of the 3xx status codes.

But when errors occur, you should return a response with a status from the
4xx or 5xx family. The 4xx family is reserved for client errors, such as
failure of input validation, while the 5xx family is reserved for server
(or application) errors, such as failure to connect to the database because
it's down or whatever.

Leyland takes quite a bit of the responsibility of returning proper HTTP
exceptions for itself, when negotiating requests with the client. When
Leyland cannot satisfy a request, it will automatically return proper
errors such as "404 Not Found", "415 Unsupported Media Type", etc. Refer to
L<Leyland::Negotiator> for more information about HTTP negotiation.

The most common HTTP exception you will return will probably be "400 Bad Request",
when input validation fails, or "401 Unauthorized" or "403 Forbidden" when
a client attempts to perform some operation (or requests a resource) without
being properly authorized to do so. I find that people tend to think they
are not supposed to return errors of the 5xx family by themselves. I do believe
that's wrong. Whenever a request cannot be fulfilled because something
had failed on I<your application's> side, then a 5xx error is appropriate,
mostly 500 Internal Server Error. Say a request is made to create a new
article and save it in the database. If input validation failed, you will
return a 400 Bad Request error. Say, however, that validation succeeded
(so the request is perfectly legal), but for some reason the application
fails storing the article in the database. A 500 Internal Server Error
is most appropriate in this case.

=head1 THROWING EXCEPTIONS

Throwing exceptions with Leyland is easy. Just use the C<exception()> method
in L<Leyland::Context>:

	$c->exception({ code => 400, error => "You must provide the subject of the article to create" });

When you call the C<exception()> method, an exception is immediately thrown,
Leyland then catches the exception and properly serializes it to a format
the client supports, such as HTML, JSON or XML (or plain text when the client
does not support any of these formats). If the request was initiated from
a web browser, then a C<text/html> response with a 400 Bad Request status
and the provided error message will be returned to the browser. If the
request was initiated from a JSON client, such as with an AJAX request, then
the error will be returned in JSON format.

=head1 PRETTIFYING EXCEPTIONS

By default, when returning exceptions to web browsers, the resulting HTML
will be pretty ugly. However, Leyland gives you the ability to render
exceptions into views/templates, such that even exceptions can be returned
in the design and layout of your application.

To do this, create a template such as C<error.html>:

	<h1>Oops, an error has occured!</h1>

	<p>MyApp has encountered an [== $error =] error: [== $message =]</p>

When throwing an exception, do this:

	$c->exception({
		code => 400,
		error => "You must provide the subject of the article to create",
		mimes => {
			"text/html" => "error.html"
		}
	});

When this exception is thrown, if the client accepts HTML, then the C<error.html>
view will be rendered, possibly into a layout template such as C<layouts/main.html>,
unless you also pass C<< use_layout => 0 >> to C<< $c->exception() >>.

The result will be something like this:

	<html>
		<head><title>MyApp</title></head>
		<body>
			<h1>Oops, an error has occured!</h1>

			<p>MyApp has encountered an 400 Bad Request error: You must provide the subject of the article to create</p>
		</body>
	</html>

The following variables are available inside error templates:

=over

=item * C<$error> - The name of the error, like "400 Bad Request" or "404 Not Found"

=item * C<$message> - The error message thrown

=back

You can render any kind of templates, even non-HTML ones. In the "mimes"
hash-ref passed to C<< $c->exception() >>, you can, for example, add a template
for C<application/json> requests if you see fit.

In the future, I plan to have Leyland make it easier to globally set templates for
exceptions instead of on a per-exception basis.

=head1 EXCEPTIONS OF NON-ERROR STATUS CODES

It is completely and entirely wrong to throw exceptions that are not of
the 4xx or 5xx family of status codes. However, you can. But please don't.
Honestly.

One type of exception you might find useful, however, is a redirecting
exception, of the 3xx family. Usually, you should redirect requests using
C<< $c->res->redirect >>. At (rare) times, you might feel the need to throw
a 3xx exception (this can most likely happen in C<auto()> and C<pre_route()>
methods). In which case, also supply a "location" option to C<< $c->exception >>
with the URI to redirect to:

	$c->exception({
		code => 303,
		error => "Please see the provided URI",
		location => $c->uri_for('/something')
	});

Again, don't do this unless you have a really good reason to.

=head1 WHAT'S NEXT?

Read L<Leyland::Manual::Deployment> to learn how to run and deploy Leyland
applications or L<return to the table of contents|Leyland::Manual/"TABLE OF CONTENTS">.

=head1 AUTHOR

Ido Perlmuter, C<< <ido at ido50.net> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-Leyland at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Leyland>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

	perldoc Leyland::Manual::Exceptions

You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Leyland>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Leyland>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Leyland>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Leyland/>

=back

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2010-2014 Ido Perlmuter.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.

=cut
