=head1 NAME

Leyland::Manual::FAQ - Frequently asked questions about Leyland

=head1 HOW CAN I MAKE MY APP ANSWER "OPTIONS" REQUESTS?

The HTTP C<OPTIONS> request method is used by clients to ask a server what
are the HTTP methods they can perform on a certain resource (or URI path
if you will). The server is supposed to answer with the response header
"Allow", containing a list of valid methods, like "GET, POST, PUT".

The good news for you is that L<Leyland> already does this automatically for
you. When it receives an C<OPTIONS> request to a certain resource, it finds
out all methods supported by it, and returns a proper answer to the client.

=head1 HOW CAN I MAKE MY APP ANSWER "HEAD" REQUESTS?

The HTTP C<HEAD> request method is exactly similar to C<GET>, except only
the response headers are returned, without the response body. If you want
to add support for HEAD requests in your Leyland applications, add the
L<Head|Plack::Middleware::Head> Plack middleware to C<app.psgi>.

=head1 WHY ARE YOU NOT USING PLACK'S LOGGING MIDDLEWARES?

Since v1.0.0, Leyland does! Look at L<Leyland::Manual::Logging> for more info.

=head1 WHAT'S NEXT?

Refer to L<Leyland::Manual::Upgrading> for information about upgrading Leyland
for existing applications, or L<return to the table of contents|Leyland::Manual/"TABLE OF CONTENTS">.

=head1 AUTHOR

Ido Perlmuter, C<< <ido at ido50.net> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-Leyland at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Leyland>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

	perldoc Leyland::Manual::FAQ

You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Leyland>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Leyland>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Leyland>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Leyland/>

=back

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2010-2014 Ido Perlmuter.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.

=cut
