=head1 NAME

Geo::ISO19139 - access iso-19139 structures

=head1 INHERITANCE

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # See Geo::ISO19139:2005

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ISO TC/211 (Geographic Information/Geomatics) is responsible for
the ISO geographic information series of standards, in coordination
with OpenGIS Consortium (OGC) and many other organisations and
bodies.  See L<http://www.isotc211.org>

This distribution contains all definitions of ISO-19139: "Metadata -
Implementation specification", which is the specification of many
ISO-191xx standards.  GML (ISO19136) which is released seperately
in package Geo::GML, because it has also many pre-ISO versions.

In the future, it would be nice to extend this module into more of an
application base.  On the moment, it is just a schema container, which
enables you to read and write XML which use these schemas.

Name-spaces and Components:
  GMD ISO19115 Metadata
  GSS ISO19107 Spatial Schema, realized by GML
  GTS ISO19108 Temporal Schema
  GSR ISO19111 Spatial Reference Schema, realized by GML
  GCO ISO19118 Encoding, basic types
  GMX Extended Geographic Metadata

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

Geo::ISO19139-E<gt>B<new>('READER'|'WRITER'|'RW', OPTIONS)

=over 4

This C<new()> method will instantiate a L<Geo::ISO19139::2005|Geo::ISO19139::2005> object,
when called with the required "version => 2005" option.  Other OPTIONS
are passed to L<Geo::ISO19139::2005::new()|Geo::ISO19139::2005/"Constructors">.

 Option --Default
 version  <required>

. version => VERSION

=over 4

Only used when the object is created directly from this base-class.  It
determines which GML syntax is to be used.  Can be a VERSION like "2005"

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Geo-ISO19139 distribution version 0.10,
built on June 12, 2008. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/geo/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2008 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

