
=head1 NAME

HTML::DOM::Collection::Options - A subclass of HTML::DOM::Collection for 'option' elements

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.054

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use HTML::DOM;
  $doc = HTML::DOM->new;
  $doc->write('
      <form name=theform>
        <select name=choice>
          <option>
          <option>
        </select>
      </form>
  ');
  $doc->close;
  
  $options = $doc->forms->{theform}{choice}->options;
  # returns an HTML::DOM::Collection::Options object
  
  $options->[0]; # first option
  $options->item(0); # same
  
  $options->[0] = undef; # deletes it
  delete $options->[0]; # likewise
  
  $options->length; # same as scalar @$options

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This inherits from L<HTML::DOM::Collection> and adds a few extra methods
for compatibility with L<WWW::Mechanize>. This is used to represent a
'select' element's list of options.

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

Normally you would simply call L<HTML::DOM::Element::Select>'s C<options>
method
(as in the L</SYNOPSIS>). But if you wall to call the constructor anyway, 
here is
the syntax:

  $elements = HTML::DOM::Collection::Options->new(
      $nodelist, $select_elem
  )

$nodelist should be a node list (L<HTML::DOM::NodeList>) object.

=head1 ARRAY INTERFACE

You can use an options collection as an array reference. You can even
modify it this way. If you assign C<undef> to an array element or delete
it, it will be removed completely, so C<< $options->[0] = undef >> will
cause $options->[1] to become $options->[0], for example.

Don't rely on array manipulation functions, such as C<shift>, C<push>,
C<splice>, etc. Also, don't rely on list assignments.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item $options->length

Returns the number of items in the collection.

=item $options->item($index)

Returns item number C<$index>, numbered from 0. Note that you call also use
C<< $elements->[$index] >> for short.

=item $options->namedItem($name)

Returns the item named C<$name>. You can also write C<< $elements->{$name} >>.

=back

These last few are provided for L<WWW::Mechanize> compatibility.

=over 4

=item $options->type

Returns the string 'option'.

=item $options->name

Returns the name of the 'select' element.

=item $options->possible_values

Returns the a list of the options' values. Provided for L<WWW::Mechanize> 
compatibility.

=item $options->value

=item $options->value('new_value');

Selects the option with the value given and returns the old value, or
simply returns the value if there is no argument.

=item $options->disabled

Returns true if all the options are disabled, false otherwise.

=item $options->form_name_value;

Returns a list consisting of (0) the name of the 'select' element and (1)
the value of the selected option.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<HTML::DOM>

L<HTML::DOM::Collection>

L<HTML::DOM::Element::Select>

L<HTML::DOM::Element::Form>

The source of HTML/DOM/Element/Form.pm, where this is implemented.
