=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Log::Report::Minimal::Domain - administer one text-domain

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Log::Report::Minimal::Domain;
  my $domain = Log::Report::Minimal::Domain->new(name => $name);

  # normal usage
  use Log::Report::Optional;       # or Log::Report itself
  my $domain = textdomain $name;   # find config
  textdomain $name, %configure;    # set config, only once.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Read L<Log::Report::Domain>.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item $class-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

Z<>

 -Option--Default
  name    <required>

=over 2

=item name => STRING

The name of the textdomain is used in its invocation, but also as (part of) the
translation file names, hence please keep it simple and short.

=back

example: textdomain name choice

A good choice is to use Perl's distribution name for the domain name.  For instance,
the domain name for this module would be set this way:

  use Log::Report 'log-report-optional';
  use Log::Report 'log-report-opt';

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<configure>(%options)

Z<>

 -Option--Default
  where   <required>

=over 2

=item where => ARRAY

Specifies the location of the configuration.  It is not allowed to
configure a domain on more than one location.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<isConfigured>()

Z<>

=item $obj-E<gt>B<name>()

Z<>

=back

=head2 Translating

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<interpolate>( $msgid, [$args] )

Interpolate the keys used in C<$msgid> from the values in C<$args>.
This is handled by the formatter, by default a L<String::Print|String::Print>
instance.

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Error: illegal formatter `$name' at $fn line $line

Cast by configure()

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Log-Report-Optional version 1.08,
built on September 08, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

For contributors see file ChangeLog.

This software is copyright (c) 2013-2025 by Mark Overmeer.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

