=head1 NAME

HTML::FormatText::WithLinks::AndTables - Converts HTML to Text with tables intact

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use HTML::FormatText::WithLinks::AndTables;

    my $text = HTML::FormatText::WithLinks::AndTables->convert($html);

Or optionally...

    my $conf = { # same as HTML::FormatText excepting below
        cellpadding   => 2,  # defaults to 1
        no_rowspacing => 1,  # bool, suppress vertical space between table rows
    };

    my $text = HTML::FormatText::WithLinks::AndTables->convert($html, $conf);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module was inspired by HTML::FormatText::WithLinks which has proven to be a
useful `lynx -dump` work-alike. However one frustration was that no other HTML
converters I came across had the ability to deal affectively with HTML <TABLE>s.
This module can in a rudimentary sense do so. The aim was to provide facility to take
a simple HTML based email template, and to also convert it to text with the <TABLE>
structure intact for inclusion as "multipart/alternative" content. Further, it will
preserve both the formatting specified by the <TD> tag's "align" attribute, and will
also preserve multiline text inside of a <TD> element provided it is broken using <BR/>
tags.

=head2 EXPORT

None by default.


=head1 METHODS

=head2 convert

=head1 EXAMPLE

Given the HTML below ...

    <HTML><BODY>
    <TABLE>
        <TR>
            <TD ALIGN="right">Name:</TD>
            <TD>Mr. Foo Bar</TD>
        </TR>
        <TR>
            <TD ALIGN="right">Address:</TD>
            <TD>
                #1-276 Quux Lane,     <BR/>
                Schenectady, NY, USA, <BR/>
                12345
            </TD>
        </TR>
        <TR>
            <TD ALIGN="right">Email:</TD>
            <TD><a href="mailto:foo@bar.baz">foo@bar.baz</a></TD>
        </TR>
    </TABLE>
    </BODY></HTML>

... the (default) return value of convert() will be as follows.

       Name:  Mr. Foo Bar

    Address:  #1-276 Quux Lane,
              Schenectady, NY, USA,
              12345

      Email:  [1]foo@bar.baz



              1. mailto:foo@bar.baz

=head1 SEE ALSO

    HTML::FormatText::WithLinks
    HTML::TreeBuilder

=head1 CAVEATS

    * <TH> elements are treated identically to <TD> elements

    * It assumes a fixed width font for display of resulting text.

    * It doesn't work well on nested <TABLE>s or other nested blocks within <TABLE>s.

=head1 AUTHOR

Shaun Fryer, C<< <pause.cpan.org at sourcery.ca> >> (author emeritus)

Dale Evans, C<< <daleevans at cpan.org> >> (current maintainer)

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-html-formattext-withlinks-andtables at rt.cpan.org>, or through the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=HTML-FormatText-WithLinks-AndTables>.  I will be notified, and then you'll automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.




=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc HTML::FormatText::WithLinks::AndTables


You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=HTML-FormatText-WithLinks-AndTables>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/HTML-FormatText-WithLinks-AndTables>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/HTML-FormatText-WithLinks-AndTables>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/HTML-FormatText-WithLinks-AndTables>

=back


=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Everybody. :)
L<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standing_on_the_shoulders_of_giants>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2008 Shaun Fryer, all rights reserved.

Copyright 2015 Dale Evans, all rights reserved

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

=for Pod::Coverage configure

