=pod

=head1 NAME

PDF::Burst - create one pdf doc for each page in existing pdf document

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use PDF::Burst ':all';

   my $abs_pdf = '/home/myself/file.pdf';
   
   my @abs_pdf_pagefiles = pdf_burst_CAM_PDF($abs_pdf);
   my @abs_pdf_pagefiles = pdf_burst_PDF_API2($abs_pdf);
   my @abs_pdf_pagefiles = pdf_burst_pdftk($abs_pdf);

   
   # uses CAM_PDF by default:
   my @abs_pdf_pagefiles = pdf_burst($abs_pdf);

   # change default to PDF_API2:
   $PDF::Burst::BURST_METHOD = 'PDF_API2';
   my @abs_pdf_pagefiles = pdf_burst($abs_pdf);

   # change default to pdftk:
   $PDF::Burst::BURST_METHOD = 'pdftk';
   my @abs_pdf_pagefiles = pdf_burst($abs_pdf);

   # change default to CAM_PDF
   $PDF::Burst::BURST_METHOD = 'CAM_PDF';
   my @abs_pdf_pagefiles = pdf_burst($abs_pdf);

   my @new_filenames = pdf_burst($abs_pdf) or die($PDF::Burst::errstr);
   # we get 
   #     /home/myself/file_page_0001.pdf, 
   #     /home/myself/file_page_0002.pdf, 
   #     ..
   
   
   my $abs_pdf = '/home/myself/ogre.pdf';
   
   my @new_filenames = pdf_burst($abs_pdf, 'hi' );
   # we get 
   #     /home/myself/hi_page_0001.pdf, 
   #     /home/myself/hi_page_0002.pdf, 
   #     ..
   
   my @new_filenames = pdf_burst($abs_pdf, 'hi', '/home/stuff' )
      or die($PDF::Burst::errstr);
   # we get 
   #     /home/stuff/hi_page_0001.pdf, 
   #     /home/stuff/hi_page_0002.pdf, 
   #     ..



=head1 DESCRIPTION

Bursting a pdf means if you have  a pdf doc with 10 pages, you want to have 10 docs,
each representing one page.

I just need to burst a pdf into many, so here is the module.

We provide three different $PDF::Burst::BURST_METHOD to get out pdf pages.
   
   CAM_PDF
   PDF_API2
   pdftk

You can call pdf_burst_CAM_PDF(), pdf_burst_PDF_API2(), pdf_burst_pdftk(), or pdf_burst().
Calling pdf_burst() will use the default method. 
The default method is CAM_PDF.

=head2 IF PDF::Burst FAILS

Try another burst method.
See L<CHANGING BURST METHOD>


=head2 pdftk

I was using the excellent pdftk, but the present version will not 
compile with the new gcc compiler. I get a missing libgcj.so.7rh error. 
Can only install libgcj.so.8rh on fc8 so far.

=head2 PDF_API2 vs. CAM_PDF

CAM_PDF uses CAM::PDF, slower but apparently more stable.
PDF_API2 uses PDF::API2, quicker but not supported on all architectures.


=head1 SUBROUTINES

None are exported by default.

=head2 pdf_burst()

Argument is abs path to pdf document to split up. Original is unchanged.
Optional arguments are the 'groupname', and the abs location (dir) you want
to output the files to.

Any individual page files pre existing are written over. 

Returns array list of abs paths to the files created.

=head2 pdf_burst_CAM_PDF()

Same as pdf_burst.
Used by default.
Requires CAM::PDF.

=head2 pdf_burst_PDF_API2()

Same as pdf_burst.
Obviously requires PDF::API2.

=head2 pdf_burst_pdftk()

Same as pdf_burst.
Requires that pdftk be installed.

=head1 CHANGING BURST METHOD

The api is designed so you call pdf_burst(), period.
Various methods may fail on your system. 
If your code calls pdf_burst(), and you want to change overall what the method is.. 
Instead of writing pdf_burst_ANOTHERMETHOD() you can instead set..

   $PDF::Burst::BURST_METHOD = $method;

Where $method is one of : pdftk, PDF_API2, CAM_PDF

=head1 DEBUG

To turn on debug..

   $PDF::Burst::DEBUG = 1;

To get last fail message..

   $PDF::Burst::errstr

=head1 BUGS

Please contact the AUTHOR.

=head1 CAVEATS

pdftk is wonderful. If it doesn't work, use this.
PDF::API2 2.015 will not properly split up docs on some architectures.
Note that this module is not for working with the innards of pdfs, it's to quickly split up
a pdf into pages, each its own document on disk.

If you have other methods to burst a pdf, please suggest/submit to AUTHOR.

This module is meant to work with POSIX environments, if you're on windows, that means it won't work- and it
was never meant to. No support is planned for non POSIX operating environments.

If you use method pdftk, I suggest always cleaning up after bursting, or using a temporary directory.

=head1 PREREQUISITES

=over 4

=item CAM::PDF

=item Carp

=item Cwd

=item Exporter

=item File::Copy

=item File::Which

=item LEOCHARRE::CLI

=item LEOCHARRE::Dir

=item PDF::API2

=item Test::Simple

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<PDF::API2> - excellent pdf api.

L<CAM::PDF> - works when sometimes PDF::API2 will not.

pdftk - http://www.pdfhacks.com/pdftk/

L<PDF::Extract>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Leo Charre leocharre at cpan dot org

=head1 LICENSE

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself, i.e., under the terms of the "Artistic License" or the "GNU General Public License".

=head1 DISCLAIMER

This package is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

See the "GNU General Public License" for more details.


=cut

