


=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Gzip::Zopfli - Zopfli deflate/gzip compression library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    
    use Gzip::Zopfli 'ZopfliCompress';
    my $in = 'something' x 1000;
    my $out = ZopfliCompress ($in);
    print length ($out), ' ', length ($in), "\n";
    


produces output

    62 9000


(This example is included as L<F<synopsis.pl>|https://fastapi.metacpan.org/source/BKB/Gzip-Zopfli-0.01/examples/synopsis.pl> in the distribution.)


=head1 VERSION

This documents version 0.01 of Gzip-Zopfli
corresponding to L<git commit ce701626022c4d9693449a17320e490adb09ffdb|https://github.com/benkasminbullock/gzip-zopfli/commit/ce701626022c4d9693449a17320e490adb09ffdb> released on Mon Mar 1 10:35:58 2021 +0900.

This distribution also contains the source code of the Zopfli library
version 1.0.3. See L</COPYRIGHT & LICENCE> for the
conditions under which this source code may be used (Apache Licence,
copyright by Google Inc.)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module offers access to the Zopfli compression library from
Perl. Please note that the Zopfli does not offer decompression.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 zopfli_compress

    my $out = zopfli_compress ($in, %options);

Compress C<$in> into C<$out>. The possible options are as follows:

=over

=item blocksplitting

    my $out = zopfli_compress ($in, blocksplitting => 0);

Boolean. Apply blocksplitting or not? Default value is true.

=item blocksplittingmax

    my $out = zopfli_compress ($in, blocksplittingmax => 0);

Maximum number of blocks to split into. Default is 15. Set to 0 for
unlimited.

=item numiterations

    my $out = zopfli_compress ($in, numiterations => 1);

Number of iterations. Default value is 15.

=item type

    my $out = zopfli_compress ($in, type => 'zlib');

Type of compression. Either C<gzip> (the default), C<zlib>, or C<deflate>.

=back

=head2 zopfli_compress_file

    my $out = zopfli_compress_file (in => "file");

Compress from one file to another file:

    zopfli_compress_file (in => $file, out => "$file.gz");

Compress from data to a file:

    zopfli_compress_file (from => $data, out => 'compressed-file.gz');

It also accepts all the same options as L</zopfli_compress>.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

=over

=item L<File::Slurper>

File::Slurper is used by L</zopfli_compress_file> to read and write
the files.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head2 About Zopfli

See L<https://github.com/google/zopfli>

=head2 CPAN

=over

=item Other implementations of Zopfli

=over

=item L<Compress::Zopfli>

=back

=item Other gzip/deflate/zlib compression libraries

=over

=item L<Compress::Raw::Zlib>

Interface to the Zlib compression library.

=item L<Gzip::Libdeflate>

Gzip compression and decompression with the new libdeflate library.

=item L<Gzip::Faster>

Alternative interface to zlib.

=back

=item Other

=over

=item Comparison of gzip compressions

L<https://github.com/benkasminbullock/gzip-compare>

=back

=back



=head1 AUTHOR

Ben Bullock, <bkb@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENCE

This package and associated files are copyright (C) 
2021
Ben Bullock.

You can use, copy, modify and redistribute this package and associated
files under the Perl Artistic Licence or the GNU General Public
Licence.




The underlying Zopfli library is included in this distribution. Zopfli
is copyright and licensed as follows:

Copyright 2011 Google Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Author: lode.vandevenne@gmail.com (Lode Vandevenne)

Author: jyrki.alakuijala@gmail.com (Jyrki Alakuijala)

