=head1 INTRODUCTION

The main purpose of the encoding registry is to allow encoding conversion 
information to be installed once and used anywhere. The encoding registry 
consists of an XML file providing:

=over 4

=item Byte Encoding

A byte encoding is a non-Unicode encoding which is mappable too or from Unicode. 
It contains a reference to a defining mapping that relates that encoding to 
Unicode.

=item Unicode Encoding

A natural understanding of Unicode is that there is only one Unicode encoding: 
Unicode. But Unicode is a very large encoding, and it is common to have 
processes that work on subsets of Unicode. It is these subsets that we define as 
Unicode encodings. Thus, for example, an IPA subset of Unicode would be a 
Unicode encoding, along with lower ASCII. Notice that the subsets can be 
overlapping.

A Unicode encoding is defined in terms of a set of characters or as the set of 
characters covered by a specified mapping.

=item Mappings

Mappings can be used for different processes other than simply converting 
between bytes and Unicode. Other examples of mapping processes are:

=over 4

=item transcription

Transcription is the process of sounding the words of one language in the script 
of another. This is the process used for multi-script languages.

=item transliteration

Transliteration is the process of spelling the letters of words in one script in 
another. For example, Hebrew is often transliterated into Roman script so that 
each character is uniquely identifiable in the Roman script rendering.

=back

Each mapping may be implemented in multiple ways. For example, conversion from 
SIL IPA to Unicode may be achieved using a TECkit binary mapping, a UTR22C XML 
mapping or a TECkit source language mapping. Someone may have written a Python 
transducer for the process or ICU may be able to do the conversion, or any of 
many different ways. One of the aims of the encoding registry is to keep track 
of all these different forms allowing an application to use whichever is most 
suitable to it.

=item Fonts

A side issue of the data conversion issue is that of identifying which encoding 
a particular font implies. While this is not necessarily immediately possible, 
in some cases it is. For example, it is unlikely that text in SILDoulos IPA93 
is in any other encoding than SilIPA93.

=back

=head1 Encoding REGISTRY

The encoding registry consists of an XML file that contains all the information 
needed. This allows different applications to make use of and manipulate the 
information in a cross platform way.

=head2 Locating the Registry

On Windows the encoding registry may be found at:

    HKLM\SOFTWARE\SIL\EncodingConverterRepository\Registry
    
which is a textual key containing the path and filename of the registry file. On 
Linux the default locations of:

    ~/.SIL/Converters/registry.xml
    /etc/SIL/Converters/registry.xml
    
All these locations may be overriden using the environment variable MAPPINGPATH

=head2 XML Format

The module contains both a DTD and an XSD definition of the XML file format, but 
the aim is that users do not need to know anything about the details of the file 
format.

=head1 Using the Registry

The L<Encode::Registry> module is designed to make use of the encoding registry. 
In addition, while other programs may use the registry as they may like, there 
is a textual tool: encrem, included with this module to allow relatively easy 
interaction with the registry.

Encrem allows the addition, removal and listing of mappings, encodings and font 
information. Since it uses a simple interface it can be scripted or used from 
the command line.

=head2 Example Session

Here we examine a sample session with encrem:

    encrem -o registry.xml
    
Runs encrem and will output the resulting XML to C<registry.xml>

    encrem: help                lists known commands
    encrem: create              creates an empty database
    encrem: register            register the file on Windows in the registry
    encrem: help add-encoding   get help on the add-encoding command
    encrem: add-encoding silipa93 silipa93.tec

This last command creates a new byte encoding called silipa93, a corresponding 
unicode encoding with the same coverage and a mapping that converts between the 
two which is implemented by C<silipa93.tec>. Names can be specified or else the 
program will come up with its own.

    encrem: add-alias sil_ipa93 silipa93    add some aliases for this encoding
    encrem: add-alias sil-ipa93 silipa93
