=head1 NAME

Judy - Library for creating and accessing dynamic arrays 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Judy family of functions supports fully dynamic arrays. These
arrays may be indexed by a 32- or 64-bit word (depending on processor
word size) (L<Judy::1>, L<Judy::L>), a null terminated string
(L<Judy::SL>), or an ordinary perl string (L<Judy::HS>).

Judy arrays are both speed- and memory-efficient, with no tuning or
configuration required, across a wide range of key set types
(sequential, periodic, clustered, random). Judy's speed and memory
usage are typically better than other data storage models such as
skiplists, linked lists, binary, ternary, b-trees, or even hashing,
and improves with very large data sets.

The memory used by a Judy array is nearly proportional to the
population (number of elements).

Since an initial (empty) Judy array is represented by a null pointer,
it is possible to construct an array of Judy arrays. In other words, a
Judy array's Values can be pointers to other Judy arrays. This makes
it very simple to construct an array with an arbitrary number of
dimensions or Index sizes.

The libJudy author believes JudyHS is a good replacement for a hashing
method when resizing the hash table is done during population
growth. A correctly tuned hash method with a static hash table size
and population is unbeatable for speed. However, L<Judy::HS> will
perform better than a hashing method with smaller and larger
populations than the optimum hash table size. JudyHS does not have a
degenerate performance case where knowledge of the hash algorithm can
be exploited. (I.E. JudyHS does not use a linked list to handle hash
collisions, it uses a tree of JudyL arrays and a virtual hash table
size of 4 billion).

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item L<Judy::1>:

This can be thought of as a bit vector. For a comparison between
L<Judy::1> and L<perlfunc/vec>, take a look at
L<http://perlmonks.org/?node_id=732843>.

    # Turn the 43rd bit on. A bit like:
    #
    #   vec( $str, 42, 1 ) = 1
    #
    Judy::1::Set(
        $judy_1,
        42
    );

=item L<Judy::L>

Maps an integer to another integer. This is sort of like a very
compact perl hash where the only allowed keys and values are
integers.

    # A bit like:
    #
    #   $array[ 42 ] = 9000
    #
    Judy::L::Set(
        $judy_l,
        42,
        9000
    );

=item L<Judy::SL>

Maps null terminated strings to integers.

    # A bit like:
    #
    #   $hash{world} = 9000
    #
    Judy::SL::Set(
        $judy_sl,
        'world',
        9000
    );

=item L<Judy::HS>

Maps perl strings to integers.

    # A bit like:
    #
    #   $hash{world} = 9000
    #
    Judy::HS::Set(
        $judy_sl,
        'world',
        9000
    );

=back

=head1 Multi-dimensional L<Judy::L>/L<Judy::SL>/L<Judy::HS> Arrays

Storing a pointer to another L<Judy::L> array in a L<Judy::L> array's
Value is a simple way to support dynamic multi-dimensional L<Judy::L>
arrays. These arrays (or trees) built using L<Judy::L> arrays are very
fast and memory efficient. (In fact, that is how JudySL and JudyHS are
implemented). An arbitrary number of dimensions can be realized this
way. To terminate the number of dimensions (or tree), the Value
pointer is marked to NOT point to another Judy array. A
C<Judy::JLAP_INVALID> flag is used in the least significant bit(s) of
the pointer. After the flag C<Judy::JLAP_INVALID> is removed, it is
used as a pointer to the users data.

Note: The current version of Judy.h changed this flag from 0x4 to 0x1
to allow for a malloc() that does not deliver memory on an 8 byte
aligned boundry (such as old v algrind).

The following example code segment can be used to dive into a
multi-dimensional L<Judy::L> using an API similar to Tye McQueen's
L<Data::Diver>. This makes a L<Judy::HS> object and looks past the
public API as an example of a multi-dimensional Judy::* structure.

    # For kicks, allocate a Judy::HS object and look inside it a
    # little bit.
    use Judy::HS;
    Judy::HS::Set( my ($judy), 'abcd', 42 );
    Dive( $judy, 4 );

    use Judy;
    use Judy::L;
    sub Dive {
        my ( $judy, @walk ) = @_;
        
        my ( $pvalue, $value );
        for my $key ( @walk ) {
            return if ! $judy;
            
            # Advance to next dimension.
            ( $pvalue, $value ) = Judy::L::Get( $judy, $key );
            
            # Check if pointer to user buffer
            last if $value & Judy::JLAP_INVALID;
            
            $judy = $value;
        }
        
        if ( $value & JLAP_INVALID ) {
            # Remove our flag.
            $value &= ~ Judy::JLAP_INVALID;
            
            # Return the value.
            printf "User object pointer is 0x%x at 0x%x\n", $value, $pvalue;
        }
        else {
            warn sprintf "Judy::* object pointer is 0x%x at 0x%x\n", $value, $pvalue;
        }
        return ( $pvalue, $value );
    }

Note: This works because malloc() guarantees to return a pointer with
the least bit(s) == 0x0. You must remove JLAP_INVALID before using the
pointer.

=head1 CONSTANTS

=over

=item JLAP_INVALID

=item PJERR

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<http://judy.sourceforge.net> - the C library home page

=item L<Judy::1>  - maps an integer to a bit

=item L<Judy::L>  - maps an integer to an integer/pointer

=item L<Judy::SL> - maps a null terminated string to an integer/pointer

=item L<Judy::HS> - maps a string to an integer/pointer

=item A 10 MINUTE TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION may be found at
L<http://judy.sourceforge.net/downloads/10minutes.htm>

=item A 3 HOUR TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION (out of date and a bit corny) may
be found at L<http://judy.sourceforge.net/application/shop_interm.pdf>

=back

=head1 FILES

Locations of interest include:
http://sourceforge.net/projects/judy -- project downloads
file:/usr/share/doc/Judy/ -- for HTML version of man pages.
/usr/share/doc/Judy/demo/ -- demonstration program source files.

The author attempted to write interesting application notes using
advanced features of Judy. They may be found at
"http://judy.sourceforge.net/application/ (Some may be out of date).

=head1 ERRORS & WARNINGS

=over

=item File '%s', line %d: %s(), JU_ERRNO_* == %d, ID == %d

See the header file Judy.h from the Judy C source library. You already
have a local copy of this to have been able to build this perl
library.

=item Sorry, can't use keys longer than %d for now. This is a bug.

=item Coercing %d to 0. Can't use negative values as keys.

=item Truncating %d to %d because your number is larger than fits in a signed integer

=item Truncating %d to %u because your number is larger than fits in an unsigned integer

=item Truncating %d to %d because your number is smaller than fits in a signed integer

=item Dropping UTF8 flag for '%s'

=back

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-Judy-HS at
rt.cpan.org>, or through the web interface at
L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Judy-HS>.  I will be
notified, and then you'll automatically be notified of progress on
your bug as I make changes.



=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

  perldoc Judy

You can also look for information at:

=over

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Judy>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Judy>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Judy>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Judy/>

=back



=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Doug Baskins, totally.

Michael Schwern for writing Alien::SVN which made this possible.

Tye McQueen for inspiring the minimal API.

Yitzchak Scott-Thoennes for reminding me that perl's magic requires
extra care and attention.



=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2012 Josh Jore, all rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.



=head1 SOURCE AVAILABILITY

This source is in Github: L<git://github.com/jbenjore/judy-hs.git>



=head1 AUTHOR

Judy was invented by Doug Baskins (dougbaskins .AT, yahoo.com) and
implemented by Hewlett-Packard. (Note: Judy is named for the
inventor's sister, after discarding many proposed names.)

The perl wrapper was written by Josh Jore
