package CatalystX::CMS::Tutorial;

our $VERSION = '0.011';

=pod

=head1 NAME

CatalystX::CMS::Tutorial - drop-in content management system
 
=head1 DESCRIPTION

CatalystX::CMS (CXCMS) is a set of Catalyst base classes that enable
web-based editing and revision history of your application templates.
The impetus behind the project is simple: sometimes you need to give
non-programmers an easy way to manage your application templates, or to
allow them to extend the application with new content.

This tutorial provides an overview of the project and offers examples
of CatalystX::CMS in use.

=head1 OVERVIEW

The basic premise is simple: any URL in your Catalyst application can be
made edit-able by making your controller class a subclass of 
CatalystX::CMS::Controller. This magic is achieved through
CatalystX::CMS::Action, which evaluates every action for the presence
of the C<cxcms> request parameter. If that parameter is present and true,
then the appropriate CMS method is called. Otherwise, your normal action
chain is executed.

The CMS editor interface pulls up the raw Template Toolkit file and allows
the user to edit it in a text box. The TT files are then stored in a
Subversion repository, so you get all the Subversion features for your
templates: revision history, diff, blame, etc.

=head1 TEMPLATE STRUCTURE

CXCMS assumes the following template structure:

 wrapper.tt
 header.tt
 body.tt
 footer.tt

The C<wrapper.tt> file calls the other three.

In addition to the four-part template, CXCMS supports two levels of 
abstraction: B<type> and B<flavour>. The B<type> is intended to be used
like a MIME type. The default B<type> is C<html>. The B<flavour> is
intended to be used like a theme or skin designation. The template directory
structure is assumed to be:

 type/flavour/wrapper.tt
 type/flavour/header.tt
 type/flavour/body.tt
 type/flavour/footer.tt

This structure supports the idea of multiple flavours for each type.

=head1 A NEW PROJECT

This example looks at creating a new application designed specifically
for managing mostly raw HTML files. Look at the example app in 
the distribution t/ dir for an example.

Bootstrap your app:

 % catalyst.pl MyCMS
 % cd MyCMS
 % script/mycms_create.pl controller CMS CMS
 % script/mycms_create.pl model CMS CMS
 % script/mycms_create.pl view CMS CMS

Add the config to lib/MyCMS.pm

 __PACKAGE__->config(
    cms => {
        use_editor => 1,
        use_layout => 1,
        root => { 
            r   => [ __PACKAGE__->path_to('root') ], 
            rw  => ['/tmp/mycms/work'] 
        },
    },
 );
 
Get your css and js files served for free by the Static::Simple
plugin. Edit lib/MyCMS.pm to include:

 use Class::Inspector;
 use Path::Class::Dir;
 use CatalystX::CMS;
 my $cms_base = Class::Inspector->loaded_filename( 'CatalystX::CMS' );
 $cms_base =~ s/\.pm$//;

 __PACKAGE__->config(
    static           => {
        include_path => [
            __PACKAGE__->path_to( 'root' ),
            Path::Class::dir( $cms_base, 'tt' )
        ],
    }
 );
 
Create your local svn repos and workdir:

 % mkdir /tmp/mycms
 % svnadmin create /tmp/mycms/repos
 % cd /tmp/mycms
 % svn co file:///tmp/mycms/repos work
 % cd -

Start up the test server:

 % script/mycms_server.pl

Point your browser at a URL that doesn't yet exist:

 http://localhost:3000/cms/foo

You should be prompted to create the file. If you click
on the file name B<foo> you should be redirected to the CMS
editor. Change the default text:

 [ this is a new page ]

to something more meaningful and click C<Save>. You should be
redirected to the new URL.

See the section on L<TEMPLATE STRUCTURE> for tips on customizing
the default HTML templates.


=head1 AN EXISTING PROJECT

CXCMS was designed to drop in easily to existing projects. The easiest
way is to change your base class from:

 use base 'Catalyst::Controller';

to:

 use base 'CatalystX::CMS::Controller';

which will make all the actions in your controller editable.

What may take some work will be laying out your template directory
structure to work with the CXCMS assumptions. I<TODO: one more example
here.>


=head1 AUTHOR

Peter Karman, C<< <karman at cpan.org> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to
C<bug-catalystx-cms@rt.cpan.org>, or through the web interface at
L<http://rt.cpan.org>.  I will be notified, and then you'll automatically be
notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The Minnesota Supercomputing Institute C<< http://www.msi.umn.edu/ >>
and National Adult Literacy Database C<< http://www.nald.ca/ >>
sponsored the development of this software.

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2008 by the Regents of the University of Minnesota.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

1;
