=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::RPC::Util - XML-RPC convenience functions

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::RPC::Util
   is a Exporter

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head1 SYNOPSYS

 use XML::Compile::RPC::Util;

 my $h  = struct_to_hash $d->{struct};
 my @r  = struct_to_rows $d->{struct};
 my $d  = struct_from_rows @r;
 my $d  = struct_from_hash int => %h;

 my @a  = rpcarray_values $d->{array};
 my $d  = rpcarray_from int => @a;

 my $rc = fault_code $d->{fault};
 my ($rc, $rcmsg) = fault_code $d->{fault};

 my $d  = fault_from $rc, $msg;

=head1 Functions

=head2 Struct

=over 4

=item B<struct_from_hash>(TYPE, HASH)

Only usable when all key-value pairs are of the same type, usually C<string>.
The keys are included alphabetically.

example: 

  my $data = struct_from_hash int => { begin => 3, end => 5 };

=item B<struct_from_rows>(ROW, ROW, ...)

Each ROW is an ARRAY which contains member name, member type, and member
value. Returned is a structure.

example: 

   $d = struct_from_rows [symbol => string => 'RHAT']
                       , [limit => double => 2.25];
   print Dumper $d;

prints:

   { struct => { member =>
      [ { name => 'symbol', value => {string => 'RHAT' }}
      , { name => 'limit', value => {double => 2.25} }
      ] }};

which will become in XML

   <struct>
     <member>
       <name>symbol</name>
       <value><string>RHAT</string></value>
     </member>
     <member>
       <name>limit</name>
       <value><double>2.25</double></value>
     </member>
   </struct>

=item B<struct_to_hash>(STRUCT)

Returns a HASH containing the structure information. The order of the
keys and type of the values is lost. When keys appear more than once,
only the last one is kept.

example: 

   if(my $s = $d->{struct})
   {   my $h = struct_to_hash $s;
       print "$h->{limit}\n";
   }

=item B<struct_to_rows>(STRUCT)

Returns a LIST of all the members of the structure. Each element of the
returned LIST is an ARRAY with contains three fields: member name,
member type and member value.

example: 

   if(my $s = $d->{struct})
   {   my @rows = struct_to_rows $s;
       foreach my $row (@rows)
       {   my ($key, $type, $value) = @$row;
           print "$key: $value ($type)\n";
       }
   }

=back

=head2 Array

=over 4

=item B<rpcarray_from>(TYPE, LIST)

Construct an rpc-array structure from a LIST of values. These values must
all have the same type.

example: 

  my $d = rpcarray_from int => @a;

=item B<rpcarray_values>(RPC-ARRAY)

Remove all array information except the values fron an RPC-array structure.
Actually, only the type information is lost: the other components of the
complex XML structure are overhead.

example: 

   if(my $a = $d->{array})
   {   my @v = rpcarray_values $a;
   }

=back

=head2 Faults

=over 4

=item B<fault_code>(DATA)

In LIST context, it returns both the integer faultCode as the
corresponding faultString.  In SCALAR context, only the code.

When the faultCode is C<0>, the value of C<-1> will be returned.
Some servers (like ExistDB 1.4) accidentally forget to set a
good numeric value.

example: 

   if(my $f = $d->{fault})
   {    my ($rc, $rcmsg) = fault_code $f;
        my $rc = fault_code $f;
   }

=item B<fault_from>(CODE, STRING)

Construct a fault structure from an error code and the related error STRING.

example: 

   my $d = fault_from 42,'no answer';

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-RPC distribution version 0.17,
built on September 12, 2013. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Other distributions in this suite:
L<XML::Compile>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP12>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::WSA>,
L<XML::Compile::C14N>,
L<XML::Compile::WSS>,
L<XML::Compile::WSS::Signature>,
L<XML::Compile::Tester>,
L<XML::Compile::Cache>,
L<XML::Compile::Dumper>,
L<XML::Compile::RPC>,
L<XML::Rewrite>
and
L<XML::LibXML::Simple>.

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile> .
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2009-2013 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

