package ETLp::Manual::AuditBrowser;

# ABSTRACT: Audit Browser manual for ETLp

__END__
=pod

=head1 INTRODUCTION

The Runtime Audit Browser provides a web-based interface to the ETL job runs. Sceenshots to accompany this documnetation can be viewed at L<http://trac.assembla.com/etlp/wiki/UsingTheAuditBrowser>

=head1 SETTING UP USERS

When ETLp is first installed, it creates a single account admin with the password of admin. The first thing the administrator should do is login and change the admin password, and create a new user.

The login URL will typically be !http://<!MyHost>/etlp/user/login. Check with your system administrator if this is not the case in your environment.

=head2 Changing the Admin Password

=over 4

=item 1. Click on the B<Edit Password> menu option.

=item 2. Enter the existing password and the new password twice.

=item 3. Save the changes.

=back

=head2 Create a New User

=over 4

=item 1. Select the B<User Admin> menu option.

=item 2. Click on the B<New User> button.

=item 3. Fill in the user's details. 

=over 8

=item * If the B<Active> checkbox is not selected, the user will not be able to log in.

=item * The B<Administrator> option determines whether the user has administration privileges. This allows the user to create new users and edit user details

=back

=back

=head1 JOBS

The Jobs option allows you browse jobs that have run. The filter bar allows you to search jobs based on specific criteria

=over 4

=item * Config refers to the configuration file.

=item * Section is the section within the configuration file. Together, the configuration file and the section uniquely define a job.

=item * Status refers to the state of the job:

=over 8

=item * failed: The job dies.

=item * reaped: The job died unexpectedly when running (e.g. it was killed from the operating system). This is not currently implemented.

=item * running: The job is currently running.

=item * succeeded: The job ran to completion successfully.

=item * warning: One of the job's items failed, but the job continued to run. This will occur if the failed item's on_error status is skip or ignore

=back

=item * Min start date: specifies the minimum date when the job started.

=item * Max startdate specifies the maximum date when the job started.

=back

=head1 ITEMS

A job's items can be views by clicking on the items link on the job page. All items can be viewed - regardless of the job - by clicking on B<Items> in the menu

The message column records any messages generated during the item execution

When accessing the items report via a job, the items can be filtered by name or status. If the report is accessed from the ''Items'' menu, jobs can be filtered on status.

=head1 FILES

You can view information by an individual item's file processing by clicking on the filename. Alternativelt, you can view all files from the B<Files> menu option.

Clicking on a filename will show all processing of that file, even if the file has been renamed during its lifetime.

