package ETLp::Manual::ControlFiles;

# ABSTRACT: Control file manual for ETLp

__END__
=pod

=head1 CONTROL FILES

Control files define the format of data files. Each line specifies a field in the data file:

=over 4

=item * The field name.

=item * Whether the field is nullable.

=item * Validation rules. These are only required by the validate plugin.

=back

=head2 Example Control File

    custname   N    varchar(20)
    cost       Y    integer
    phone      Y    qr/^\d{3}-\d{4}$/
    city       N    qr/^(Auckland|Wellington)$/
    rec_date   N    date(%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S)   
    period     N    integer;range(1,50)

=over 4

=item * custname is mandatory, and can be up to 20 characters in length.

=item * cost is optional and is an integer.

=item * The phone number is optional, but if it exists it must match the specified regular expression.

=item * The city is mandatory must be either Auckland or Wellington.

=item * The rec_date must comply with the specified POSIX date format.

=item * The period must be an integer, and must be between one and fifty.

=back

=head1 VALIDATION RULES

A field can have multiple rules, each separated by a semi-colon. The possible rules are:

=over 4

=item * B<varchar(n)>. A variable number of characters, up to the value of I<n>. I<Example>: varchar(200).

=item * B<integer>. An integer value. I<Example>: 500.

=item * B<float>. A floating point number. I<Example>: 3.14.

=item * B<date(posix format)>. A date or date and time in the specified format. I<Example>: date(%d-%B-%Y).

=item * B<range(lower, upper)>. The value is a numeric and must be between the upper and lower bounds. I<Example>: range(1,12) - between 1 and 12; range(,50) - there is no lower bound, but the upper value is 50; range(0,) - the minimum value is 0, and there us no maximum value.
  
=item * B<qr//>. A regular expression. I<Example>: qr/!^[A-Z]\d/.

=back