package Markdent::Dialect::Standard;

=pod

=head1 NAME

Markdent::Dialect::Standard - Markdown as defined by John Gruber

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Markdent::Parser;

  my $parser = Markdent::Parser->new( handler => ... );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The "Standard" dialect is plain Markdown as defined by John Gruber
(L<http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/>) and as implemented by Dingus
(L<http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/dingus>).

This is the default dialect, so you do not need to ask for it explicitly.

=head2 DEVIATIONS

The Standard dialect as implemented by Markdent differs from Dingus in a few
ways:

=over 4

=item

HTML attribute quote delimiters are not preserved, so a single quote may be
converted into a double quote.

=item

Whitespace on an empty line in a code block is preserved by Markdent, but not
by Dingus.

=item

Markdent will not generate bad HTML from Markdown markup. Markdent does not
allow unbalanced markup events to propagate, and will turn unbalanced events
into plain text.

Here is an example:

  *em **strong* wtf**

Dingus turns this into:

  <p><em>em <strong>strong</em> wtf</strong></p>

Markdent's HTML output for the same:

  <p><em>em **strong</em> wtf**</p>

Note that with inline HTML, Markdent echoes it more or less as-is, so you can
still produce bad HTML with Markdent.

=back

=head1 BUGS

See L<Markdent> for bug reporting details.

=head1 AUTHOR

Dave Rolsky, E<lt>autarch@urth.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2009-2012 Dave Rolsky, All Rights Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
