package Markdent::Dialect::Theory;

=pod

=head1 NAME

Markdent::Dialect::Theory - Markdown extensions proposed by David Wheeler (aka Theory)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Markdent::Parser;

  my $parser = Markdent::Parser->new( dialects => 'Theory', handler => ... );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Theory roles add parsing for Markdown extensions proposed by David Wheeler
(aka Theory). See
L<http://justatheory.com/computers/markup/markdown-table-rfc.html> and
L<http://justatheory.com/computers/markup/modest-markdown-proposal.html> for
details.

=head2 DEVIATIONS

The dialect differs from David Wheeler's proposals in a few ways. Most of
these deviations were discussed with David Wheeler and included with his
approval.

=over 4

=item

The header's "marker" row can use "+====+" as well as "+----+":

  | Header 1 | Header 2 |
  +==========+==========+
  | Body 1   | Body 2   |

=item

The table does not require a header:

  | Body 1 | Body 2 |
  | Body 3 | Body 4 |

=item

You can include a header marker at the beginning and/or end of the table. This
matches how MySQL outputs tables from its CLI tool.

  +------+-------------+------------------------------+--------+
  | id   | name        | description                  | price  |
  +------+-------------+------------------------------+--------+
  |    1 | gizmo       | Takes care of the doohickies |   1.99 |
  |    2 | doodad      | Collects *gizmos*            |  23.80 |
  |   10 | dojigger    | Foo                          | 102.98 |
  | 1024 | thingamabob | Self-explanatory, no?        |   0.99 |
  +------+-------------+------------------------------+--------+

=item

Currently it just does tables, not definition lists. This will be fixed in a
future release.

=item

Table continuation lines are expected to have the same number of cells as the
line being continued. In other words, this doesn't work:

 | cell1 | cell2     |
         : continues

Instead, you must write this:

 | cell1 | cell2     |
 :       : continues :

This is not an approved deviation, and may be corrected in a future release if
I can figure out how to do so (patches welcome).

=back

=head1 BUGS

See L<Markdent> for bug reporting details.

=head1 AUTHOR

Dave Rolsky, E<lt>autarch@urth.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2009-2012 Dave Rolsky, All Rights Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
