=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::Schema::Instance - Represents one schema

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # Used internally by XML::Compile::Schema
 my $schema = XML::Compile::Schema::Instance->new($xml);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module collect information from one schema, and helps to
process it.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<new>($top, %options)

Get's the top of an XML::LibXML tree, which must be a schema element.
The tree is parsed: the information collected.

 -Option                --Default
  attribute_form_default  <undef>
  element_form_default    <undef>
  filename                undef
  source                  undef
  target_namespace        <undef>

=over 2

=item attribute_form_default => 'qualified'|'unqualified'

=item element_form_default => 'qualified'|'unqualified'

Overrule the default as found in the schema.  Many old schemas (like
WSDL11 and SOAP11) do not specify the default in the schema but only
in the text.

=item filename => FILENAME

When the source is some file, this is its name.

=item source => STRING

An indication where this information came from.

=item target_namespace => NAMESPACE

Overrule or set the target namespace.

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<attributeGroups>()

Returns a list of all defined attribute groups.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<attributes>()

Returns a lost of all globally defined attribute names.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<complexTypes>()

Returns a list with all complexType names.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<element>($uri)

Returns one global element definition.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<elements>()

Returns a list of all globally defined element names.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<filename>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<groups>()

Returns a list of all defined model groups.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schema>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schemaInstance>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schemaNamespace>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<sgs>()

Returns a HASH with the base-type as key and an ARRAY of types
which extend it.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<simpleTypes>()

Returns a list with all simpleType names.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<source>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<targetNamespace>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<tnses>()

A schema can defined more than one target namespace, where recent
schema spec changes provide a targetNamespace attribute.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<type>($uri)

Returns the type definition with the specified name.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<types>()

Returns a list of all simpleTypes and complexTypes

=back

=head2 Index

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<find>($kind, $fullname)

Returns the definition for the object of $kind, with $fullname.

example: of find

  my $attr = $instance->find(attribute => '{myns}my_global_attr');

=item $obj-E<gt>B<importLocations>($ns)

Returns a list of all schemaLocations specified with the import $ns
(one of the values returned by L<imports()|XML::Compile::Schema::Instance/"Index">).

=item $obj-E<gt>B<imports>()

Returns a list with all namespaces which need to be imported.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<includeLocations>()

Returns a list of all schemaLocations which where specified with include
statements.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<printIndex>( [$fh], %options )

Prints an overview over the defined objects within this schema to the
selected $fh.

 -Option       --Default
  kinds          <all>
  list_abstract  <true>

=over 2

=item kinds => KIND|ARRAY-of-KIND

Which KIND of definitions would you like to see.  Pick from
C<element>, C<attribute>, C<simpleType>, C<complexType>, C<attributeGroup>,
and C<group>.

=item list_abstract => BOOLEAN

Show abstract elements, or skip them (because they cannot be instantiated
anyway).

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile distribution version 1.63,
built on July 02, 2019. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2006-2019 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

