=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::Schema::Specs - Predefined Schema Information

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # not for end-users
 use XML::Compile::Schema::Specs;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This package defines the various schema-specifications.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item XML::Compile::Schema::Specs-E<gt>B<builtInType>( <$node|undef>, $expanded | <$uri,$local>, %options )

Provide an $expanded (full) type name or an namespace $uri and a $local node
name.  Returned is a HASH with process information or C<undef> if not
found.

 -Option         --Default
  json_friendly    <false>
  sloppy_floats    <false>
  sloppy_integers  <false>

=over 2

=item json_friendly => BOOLEAN

The READER is slightly different, to produce output which can be passed
on to JSON serializers without need for conversion.  Implies C<sloppy_floats>.

=item sloppy_floats => BOOLEAN

The float types of XML are all quite big, and support NaN, INF, and -INF.
Perl's normal floats do not, and therefore Math::BigFloat is used.  This,
however, is slow.  When true, your application will crash on any value which
is not understood by Perl's default float... but run much faster.

=item sloppy_integers => BOOLEAN

the <integer> types must accept huge integers, which require
C<Math::BigInt> objects to process.  But often, Perl's normal signed
32bit integers suffice... which is good for performance, but not standard
compliant.

=back

=item XML::Compile::Schema::Specs-E<gt>B<predefinedSchema>($uri)

Return a HASH which contains the schema information for the specified
$uri (or undef if it doesn't exist).

=item XML::Compile::Schema::Specs-E<gt>B<predefinedSchemas>()

Returns the uri of all predefined schemas.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile distribution version 1.63,
built on July 02, 2019. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2006-2019 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

