=pod

=head1 NAME

Limper::Differences - differences between Limper and Dancer

=head1 VERSION

version 0.015

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes the differences between L<Limper> and L<Dancer>, as
well as planned features, what will never happen, etc.

This just covers the basic differences of what is described on the main
documentation page for L<Dancer>, and not deeper differences.  More about
use, less about design.



=head1 Differences

=head2 Routes

Limper also has B<trace>.

Limper's B<any> really matches any. The following syntax is not supported:

  any ['get', 'post'] => '/myaction' => sub { ... };

Instead, you can chain routes together:

  get post => '/myaction' => sub { ... };

This is both cleaner code and cleaner syntax.

Limper does not support B<prefix>, and likely never will.

=head2 Hooks

Limper has three hooks: B<after>, B<request_handler>, and B<response_handler>.

Limper's B<after> is similar to Dancer's B<after>.

Other hooks may be added as needed.

=head2 Logging

Limper has B<info> and B<warning>. They send to B<STDOUT> and B<STDERR>,
respectively.

Dancer also has B<debug> and B<error>, which Limper might get.

There is currently no way to configure these.

=head2 Config

Limper does not currently use a config file.

Dancer's B<setting> (and it's alias B<set>) allow you to get/set config
setting, though it also accesses some sort of current settings under some
condition.

=head2 Response Headers

Limper and Dancer both have B<headers>. Limper's will also return the
current headers as a list or arrayref.

However, Limper will currently replace B<all> headers with whatever is
passed to it.

Dancer's B<header> is just an alias for B<headers>.

Something like B<push_header> is currently not supported, but could be
supported by a plugin.

=head2 Status

Limper's B<status> can also set a custom phrase to return with the code
(will likely only work with the built-in server).

Dancer's B<status> can take a code's standard name in lower case instead of
the code.

=head2 Request

Limper's B<request> is just a simple hashref.



=head1 Differences that are outside the scope of Limper proper

=head2 Data Structure Conversion

Limper will never have any of these, but plugins can easily be created for
them:

  from_dumper to_dumper
  from_json to_json
  from_yaml to_yaml
  from_xml to_xml

=head2 Boolean

Limper does not define B<true> or B<false>. Dancer's B<true> and B<false> is just B<1> and B<0>,
which is annoying because then you can't C<use boolean;>.

=head2 Sending Files and MIME Types

See L<Limper::SendFile/send_file> and L<Limper::SendFile/mime_types>.

=head2 Sugary Things

These are all implemented in L<Limper::Sugar>:

  limper_version load captures dirname halt send_error uri_for redirect content_type path



=head1 Currently Unsupported

The following are currently unsupported, and may or may not be supported later, either in Limper itself or via a plugin.

=head2 var, vars

This should be trivial enough to implement in Limper.

=head2 params, param, param_array

There should be a plugin for this.

=head2 splat

Something like this would be nice. Currently the following will work, though:

  get qr{^/file/([^/]+)\.([^/]+)$} => sub {
    my ($file, $extension) = ($1, $2);
    ...
  };

Yes, it's hideous. "megasplat" is much more complex.

=head2 forward

Unknown complexity.

=head2 pass

Unknown complexity.

=head2 cookie, cookies

Unknown complexity.

=head2 session

Unknown complexity.

=head2 upload

Unknown complexity. Perhaps a plugin.

=head2 template

Unknown complexity. Will be a plugin.

=head2 engine

Unknown complexity. Perhaps a plugin. Related to B<template>.

=head2 load_app

Unknown complexity. Without B<prefix>, I'm not sure how useful this really is.
Limper does not have the degree of containment that Dancer has.



=head1 Features Limper has that Dancer does not

=head2 response

This returns a hashref of what the current response will be when the route
ends.  It can be inspected and modified as needed.  I don't know how to get
at any of these values easily under Dancer, outside of a hook.



=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2014 by Ashley Willis E<lt>ashley+perl@gitable.orgE<gt>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.12.4 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Limper::Extending>

=cut
