=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Limper::Extending - how to make Limper more useful

=head1 VERSION

version 0.015

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Limper> is B<really> simple, and meant to have only the features needed.
This hopes to show how to extend it and make it more useful in a manageable
way.

=head1 EXAMPLE

Basic outline of a package that extends B<Limper>:

  package Limper::Plugin::Foo;

  use base 'Limper';
  use 5.10.0;
  use strict;
  use warnings;

  package        # newline because Dist::Zilla::Plugin::PkgVersion and PAUSE indexer
    Limper;

  use Fizz;
  use Buzz;

  push @Limper::EXPORT, qw/foo/;
  push @Limper::EXPORT_OK, qw/bar/;

  hook after => sub { ... }

  sub bar { ... }

  sub foo { ... }

  1;

And then in your app:

  use 5.10.0;
  use strict;
  use warnings;

  use Limper::Plugin::Foo;
  use Limper;   # this must come after all extensions

  get '/foo' => sub { foo };

  limp;

If you also want to be able to send static content, then C<use
Limper::SendFile> as well in your app.

B<NOTE>: Using other plugins in your plugin currently may have unintended
side-effects if something else wants to use that plugin, too.  This should
be tested.

=head1 LAYOUT

Your plugin should always start with the following, replacing "Foo" with the
name of your choice.  Limper supports down to 5.10.0 (and will not go
lower).

  package Limper::Plugin::Foo;

  use base 'Limper';
  use 5.10.0;
  use strict;
  use warnings;

  package        # newline because Dist::Zilla::Plugin::PkgVersion and PAUSE indexer
    Limper;

All code specific to your plugin follows the above.

=head1 NAMESPACES

Modules added to the B<Limper::> sub-namespaces should be reasonably generic
components which are useful as building blocks and not just simply using
B<Limper>.  See L<Limper::Passphrase> for an example of what should B<not>
be a plugin.

If you are writing an interface to connect B<Limper> to a particular web
server or protocol, put it under the B<Limper::Engine::> namespace (like
L<Limper::Engine::PSGI>).

If it's an otherwise typical plugin that just creates new fucntions and
possibly uses hooks, put it under the B<Limper::Plugin::> namespace.  If
your plugin is extending another plugin (with a tight logical relationship,
not just requiring it), it should probably be named under that plugin's
namespace.

It's not wrong to be polite and mention your plugin's name and purpose to
whoever owns the direct parent namespace before publishing (or even
creating) it.

There are plugins listed directly under the B<Limper::> namespace, but
please B<do not> name your plugin like this without explicit permission from
me.  This is reserved for features I deem are core to a robust framework but
should not be in Limper proper, or that I maintain, as well as documentation
and whatnot.  If you feel your plugin really should be named B<Limper::Foo>
instead of B<Limper::Plugin::Foo>, contact me (perhaps Limper should have
another sub-namespace?).  I'm not even sure if L<Limper::SendFile> and
L<Limper::SendJSON> should be named as such or moved under
B<Limper::Plugin::>.

B<DO NOT USE> the B<Limper::> namespace to build a new web application or
whatnot.  It's like naming your application under CGI:: namespace if it's
supposed to run on CGI and that is a really bad choice and would confuse
people badly.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2014 by Ashley Willis E<lt>ashley+perl@gitable.orgE<gt>

B<rabcyr> on irc and L<twitter|https://twitter.com/rabcyr>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.12.4 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Actual examples:

L<Limper::Engine::PSGI>

L<Limper::SendFile>

L<Limper::SendJSON>

=cut
