
=head1 NAME

Graph::SocialMap - Easy tool to create social network map

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    # The Structure of relationship
    my $relation = {
        'WorkWith'  => [qw/Marry Rose/],
        'ChatWith'  => [qw/Marry Peacock/],
        'DanceWith' => [qw/Rose Joan/],
        'HackWith'  => [qw/Gugod Autrijus/],
    };

    # Generate a Graph::SocialMap object.
    my $gsm = Graph::SocialMap->new(relation => $relation) ;

    # People Network (Graph::Undirected object)
    my $pn = $gsm->people_network;

    # Save it with Graph::Writer::* module
    my $writer = Graph::Writer::DGF->new();
    $writer->write_graph($pn,'type1.dgf');

    # Weight of person (equal to the number of occurence)
    # Should be 2
    print $gsm->wop->{Rose};

    # Degree of seperation
    # Should be 2 (Marry -> Rose -> Joan)
    print $gsm->dos('Marry','Joan');
    # Should be less then zero (Unreachable)
    print $gsm->dos('Gugod','Marry');

    # all-pair dos (hashref of hashref)
    $gsm->all_dos;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module implement a interesting graph application that is called
the 'Social Relation Map'. It provides object-oriented way to retrieve
many social information that can be found in this map.

The C<new()> constructor accepts one argument in the for of 'hashref
of arrayref'.  The key to this hash is the name of relation, and the
value of the hash is a list of identities involved in this relation.

Take the synopsis for an example, the structure:

    my $relation = {
        'WorkWith' => [qw/Marry Rose/],
        'ChatWith' => [qw/Marry Peacock/],
        'DanceWith' => [qw/Rose Joan/],
        'HackWith' => [qw/Gugod Autrijus/],
    };

Defines 4 issues which have common people involves in, the relation
'WorkWith' involves Marry and Rose, and the relation 'ChatWith' involves
Marry and Peacock. By this 2 relations, we say that Marry is directly
connected to Rose and Peacock, and Rose and Peacock are connected to
each other indirectly, with degree of seperation 1. Likewise, Marry
and Joan are connected to each other with degree of seperation 2.

=head1 METHODS

Once constructed, you may call the following object methods to
retrieve further social network information.

=over 4

=item affiliation_network()

Affiliation network -- directly construct a network from given
issue-people relation. Returns a L<Graph::Undirected> object that is a
bi-partie graph, one part of it present issues, the others are present
people. Issue nodes and People nodes are connected if they are
related.

=item people_network()

People network -- two people are connected if they are involed in at
least one common issue. Return a L<Graph::Undirected> object.

=item issue_network()

Issue network -- two issues are connected if they involved at least
one common person. Return a L<Graph::Undirected> object.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2004,2005 by Kang-min Liu <gugod@gugod.org>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

See <http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

