$Id: README.pod,v 0.2 2001/12/19 05:27:20 brendan Exp $

=for html 
<div id="content">
<H1>Syndication::NITF -- A NITF v3.0 library for Perl</H1>
</div><div id="content">

=begin text

=head1 Syndication::NITF -- a NITF v3.0 library for Perl

=end text

Syndication::NITF is an object-oriented Perl interface to NITF documents, allowing
you to manage (and one day create) NITF documents without any specialised NITF
or XML knowledge.

NITF is a standard format for the markup of textual news content (eg newspaper and
magazine articles), ratified by the International Press Telecommunications
Council (http://www.iptc.org). 

This module supports the version 3.0 DTD of NITF. It makes no attempt to support
eariler versions of the DTD.

=over 4

=back

You can find out more about NITF at
B<http://www.nitf.org/>
or B<http://www.iptc.org/>

=head1 LATEST VERSION AND WHAT'S NEW

The latest version is 0.02, released 19 December 2001.

Download: http://www.cpan.org/authors/id/B/BQ/BQUINN/

=head2 What's New in 0.02:

=over 4

=item *

B<Example Parser>

Simple example parser added that outputs information about
an NITF file, handling most types of tag.

=back

=for html
<P>See the <A HREF="Changes.html">Changes file</A> for previous releases.</P>

=for text
See the Changes file for previous releases.

=head1 INSTALLING Syndication::NITF

The simple way to install Syndication::NITF:

   $ perl -MCPAN -e shell
   cpan> install Syndication::NITF

Or you can do it by hand

Retrieve the latest copy from CPAN: http://www.cpan.org/authors/id/B/BQ/BQUINN/

   $ perl Makefile.PL # Creates the Makefile
   $ make             # Runs the makefile
   $ make test        # Optional (See Interopability below)
   $ make install     # Installs Syndication::NITF into  your Perl library location

With this method you will first have to install the pre-requisite module XML::DOM.
See L<what are the prerequisites?>.

=head2 What Are The Prerequisites?

=over 4

=item * 

XML::DOM (Have not tested lower than v1.27) 

=item *

Perl5 (Have not tested lower than v5.6) 

=back

To get the latest versions of the prerequisite module you can simply type this at the command prompt:

   $ perl -MCPAN -e shell
   cpan> install XML::DOM

or if you just 'install Syndication::NITF' the CPAN module should automagically install all of the prerequisites for you.

=head2 What Systems Does It Work With?

Syndication::NITF B<should> work on any machine that supports XML::DOM, and any filesystem
including Windows, although I haven't tested it on Windows yet. It's still early days, so
expect some bugs.

=head1 WHERE ARE THE MANUALS?

Once you've installed, you can type: 

   $ perldoc Syndication::NITF

=for html
<P>Or you can view them starting from here:
<A HREF="Syndication-NITF.html">Syndication::NITF</A>,

=head1 GETTING HELP

The best place to ask questions now would be the NITF mailing list at
B<http://groups.yahoo.com/group/nitf/>, or ask
me directly at brendan\@clueful.com.au. If there is enough demand we may start up a specialised list.

General Perl/XML questions should be asked on the Perl-XML mailing list, which you can find at
B<http://aspn.activestate.com/ASPN/Mail/Browse/Threaded/perl-xml>

=head1 THE TEST SUITE & INTEROPERABILITY

The standard C<make test> test suite checks most elements in a small range of test NITF documents
obtained from the Net. You can find the test documents in the C<t/test_data/> directory.

=head1 BUGS and TODO

There are probably bugs all over the place -- this is still an early version.

At the moment, C<Syndication::NITF> only reads NITF files -- in the future it should be able to modify and
write them as well.

=for html
<P>See <A HREF="TODO.html">TODO</A> for what I'm thinking of building and what would be nice to have.</P>

=for text
See TODO for what I'm thinking of building and what would be nice to have.

=head1 AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT

This module is Copyright (C) 2001 by

	Brendan Quinn
	Clueful Consulting Pty Ltd
	GPO Box 2747EE
	Melbourne 3001
	Victoria, AUSTRALIA

All rights reserved.

This module is free software. It may be used, redistributed
and/or modified under the same terms as Perl itself.

$Id: README.pod,v 0.2 2001/12/19 05:27:20 brendan Exp $

=cut

=for text
** This file was automatically generated from **
** doc/README.pod. To edit it, see there.    **

=for html
</div>
