=head1 NAME

XML::LibXML::NamedNodeMap - A map for named nodes

=head1 SYNOPSIS



  use XML::LibXML;
  my $map = XML::LibXML::NamedNodeMap->new(@nodes);

  my $nodes_list = $map->nodes();

  my $node_with_index_2 = $map->item(2);

  my $length = $map->length;
  my $nodes_ref = $node->nodes()
  my $node_2 = $map->item(2);
  my $node = $map->getNamedItem('phone_number');
  $map->setNamedItem($new_node)
  $map->removeNamedItem($name)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

XML::LibXML::NamedNodeMap maps nodes' names to nodes.


=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item length

  my $length = $map->length;

Returns the number of nodes in the map.


=item nodes

  my $nodes_ref = $node->nodes()

Returns a reference to the list of nodes.


=item item

  my $node_2 = $map->item(2);

Returns the node with the index of the argument (starting from 0)


=item getNamedItem

  my $node = $map->getNamedItem('phone_number');

Returns the node with the name.


=item setNamedItem

  $map->setNamedItem($new_node)

Sets the node with the same name as C<<<<<< $new_node >>>>>> to C<<<<<< $new_node >>>>>>.


=item removeNamedItem

  $map->removeNamedItem($name)

Remove the item with the name C<<<<<< $name >>>>>>.


=item getNamedItemNS

I<<<<<< Not implemented yet. >>>>>>.


=item setNamedItemNS

I<<<<<< Not implemented yet. >>>>>>.


=item removeNamedItemNS

I<<<<<< Not implemented yet. >>>>>>.



=back

=head1 AUTHORS

Matt Sergeant,
Christian Glahn,
Petr Pajas


=head1 VERSION

2.0213

=head1 COPYRIGHT

2001-2007, AxKit.com Ltd.

2002-2006, Christian Glahn.

2006-2009, Petr Pajas.

=cut


=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.

