=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Math::DifferenceSet::Planar::Examples - overview of M::DS:P example scripts

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The F<examples> directory of the Math-DifferenceSet-Planar distribution
currently contains the scripts listed below.  Filters, i.e. scripts that
process sets provided as input, are marked [F].  Scripts with no input
besides command line parameters are marked [P].

=over 4

=item A333852.pl

[P] Generate terms of OEIS A333852.

=item A353077.pl

[P] Generate terms of OEIS A353077.

=item numlist_sort

[F] Sort a list of lists of integer numbers.

=item pds_canonize

[F] Translate planar difference sets into one of the canonical forms.

=item pds_databases

[P] Show available planar difference set databases.

=item pds_enumerate

[F] Enumerate all the translates of planar difference sets.

=item pds_find_delta

[F] Find pairs of difference set elements with given difference.

=item pds_find_space

[P] Find generators of difference set spaces.

=item pds_find_std_ref

[F] Find standard reference sets from arbitrary planar difference sets.

=item pds_from_lambda

[F] Generate planar difference sets from order/lambda/theta fingerprints.

=item pds_identify

[F] Display order/lambda/theta fingerprints of planar difference sets.

=item pds_info

[F] Display various information about planar difference sets.

=item pds_iterate

[P] Dump stored sample planar difference sets for ranges of orders.

=item pds_iterate_properties

[P] Display properties of stored planar difference sets for ranges of orders.

=item pds_iterate_spaces

[P] Display stored rotator space data.

=item pds_linear_maps

[F] Find linear mapping functions between planar difference sets.

=item pds_main_elements

[F] Print main elements of planar difference set planes.

=item pds_multipliers

[P] Show planar difference set multipliers of a given order.

=item pds_multiply

[F] Multiply planar difference sets by a factor.

=item pds_optable

[F] Print difference tables for planar difference sets.

=item pds_planes

[P/F] Enumerate planar difference set planes of a given order or sample sets.

=item pds_randomize

[F] Generate random planar difference sets of same size from given sets.

=item pds_rotators

[P] Enumerate planar difference set rotators of a given order.

=item pds_sample

[P] Print a planar difference set of a given order.

=item pds_sort_elements

[F] Numerically sort planar difference set elements.

=item pds_translate

[F] Translate planar difference sets.

=item pds_verify

[F] Verify lists of integers as planar difference sets.

=item random_pds

[P] Generate a random planar difference set.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

Some examples from earlier releases have been moved from separate scripts
into more general scripts with parameters, particularly where canonization
variants had been the distinctive feature.  Others have been dropped
for being deprecated or lacking relevance.  We list all such changes here.

=over 4

=item A333852-essential.pl

Dropped for being too similar to A353077.pl.

=item pds_check

Dropped with deprecated method check_elements.

=item pds_eta

Now part of pds_info.

=item pds_gap_canonize

Now part of pds_canonize.

=item pds_largest_gap

Now part of pds_info.

=item pds_peak_elements

Now part of pds_info.

=item pds_spaces

Renamed to pds_iterate_spaces for consistency.

=item pds_statistic

Renamed to pds_iterate_properties for consistency.

=item pds_zeta

Now part of pds_info.

=item pds_zeta_canonize

Now part of pds_canonize.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Martin Becker, E<lt>becker-cpan-mp I<at> cozap.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2022-2023 by Martin Becker, Blaubeuren.

This library is free software; you can distribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0 (see the LICENSE file).

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of merchantability
or fitness for a particular purpose.

=cut
