
=head1 RTF Overview

RTF is a format that can express complex formatted documents in ASCII.
This document expects that you have some familiarity with it, and are
familiar with the terms 'text field', 'control word', and 'group' as
they apply to RTF.

Sean Burke has very usefully written:

An online introduction to RTF

L<http://search.cpan.org/~sburke/RTF-Writer/lib/RTF/Cookbook.pod>

The RTF Pocket Guide

L<http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/rtfpg/>

=head1 What the different modules do

=head2 RTF::Parser

L<RTF::Parser> is the foundation class. It's essentially a wrapper
for <RTF::Tokenizer> that executes events that you define as it comes
across different parts of the RTF document - it has handlers for
when groups open, when they close, when we come across a control word,
and so on.

=head2 RTF::Control

L<RTF::Control> sub-classes L<RTF::Parser>. It defines a number of events
for which you can write handlers that are specifically geared towards
people who want to write converters - where RTF::Parser things in terms
of control words and groups, RTF::Control thinks in terms of paragraphs,
and formatting properties for text.

=head2 RTF::TEXT::Converter, RTF::HTML::Converter

L<RTF::TEXT::Converter> and L<RTF::HTML::Converter> sub-class L<RTF::Control>,
and are essentially documents that specify how to react to RTF::Control's
events to spit RTF out as text and HTML respectively. You can also use them
to inline RTF conversion to text or HTML in your documents.

=head1 AUTHOR

Peter Sergeant C<pete@clueball.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2004 B<Pete Sergeant>.

This documentation is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 CREDITS

This work was carried out under a grant generously provided by The Perl Foundation -
give them money!
