
=head1 NAME

OpenTracing::Role::Span - Role for OpenTracing implementations.



=head1 SYNOPSIS

    package OpenTracing::Implementation::MyBackendService::Span;
    
    use Moo;
    
    ...
    
    with 'OpenTracing::Role::Span'
    
    1;



=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a Role for OpenTracing implenetations that are compliant with the
L<OpenTracing::Interface>.

With the exception of calls to C<get_context()> (which are always allowed),
C<finish()> must be the last call made to any span instance, and to do otherwise
leads to undefined behavior (but not returning an exception).



=head1 IMPLEMENTED OPENTRACING METHODS

The following methods from
L<OpenTracing::Interface|OpenTracing::Interface::Span>
have been implemented. See their documentation for more details.



=head2 C<get_context>

Yields the C<SpanContext> for this C<Span>. Note that the return value of 
C<get_context()> is still valid after a call to L<finish()>, as is a call to
L<get_context()> after a call to L<finish()>.

See L<OpenTracing::Interface::Span/"get_context">.



=head2 C<overwrite_operation_name>

Changes the operation name.

See L<OpenTracing::Interface::Span/"overwrite_operation_name">.



=head2 C<finish>

Sets the end timestamp and finalizes Span state.

See L<OpenTracing::Interface::Span/"finish">.



=head2 C<add_tag>

Adds a tag to the span.

See L<OpenTracing::Interface::Span/"add_tag">.



=head2 C<add_tags>

Adds multiple tags to the span at the same time

See L<OpenTracing::Interface::Span/"add_tags">.



=head2 C<log_data>

Adds a log record to the span.

See L<OpenTracing::Interface::Span/"log_data">.



=head2 C<add_baggage_item>

Sets a key:value pair on this Span and its SpanContext that also propagates to
descendants of this Span.

See L<OpenTracing::Interface::Span/"add_baggage_item">.



=head2 C<add_baggage_items>

Sets multiple C<baggage_items> at once.

See L<OpenTracing::Interface::Span/"add_baggage_items">.



=head2 C<get_baggage_item>

Returns either the corresponding baggage value, or C<undef> when such a value
was missing.

See L<OpenTracing::Interface::Span/"get_baggage_item">.



=head2 C<get_baggage_items>

This will return a Hash of key/value pairs.

See L<OpenTracing::Interface::Span/"get_baggage_items">.



=head1 WARNING

B<Never use any of attributes or methods below in any integration!>

Only methods mentioned in the Public OpenTracing::Interface are safe to be used
in any integration or when instrumenting applications.



=head1 ATTRIBUTES



=head2 C<operation_name>

A required C<Str> Type value, for the operation name.

See L<< C<get_operation_name> >> and L<< C<overwrite_operation_name> >>.



=head2 C<start_time>

A read-only C<PositiveOrZeroNum> floatingpoint that defaults to the number of
seconds since epoch.



=head2 C<finish_time>

A C<PositiveOrZeroNum> floatingpoint that can only be set by calling C<finish>.

See L<< C<finish> >> and L<< C<has_finished> >>.



=head2 C<tags>

An optional C<HashRef> of C<Value>s that defaults to an empty hash reference.

See L<< C<add_tag> >>, L<< C<add_tags> >>, L<< C<get_tag> >>, and
L<< C<get_tags> >>.



=head2 C<context>

A required read-only L<SpanContext|OpenTracing::Types/"SpanContext"> type.

Although a read-only, it will get swapped for a L<< C<clone_with>|
OpenTracing::Roles::SpanContext/"clone_with" >> result when trying to add any
C<baggage_item>, since C<SpanContext> is inmutable.

See L<< C<get_context> >>, L<< C<add_baggage_item> >>, and
L<< C<add_baggage_items> >>.



=head2 C<child_of>

A B<optional> C<Span> or C<SpanContext>.

Note: this may not be the correct design and this attribute may disapear.

See L<< C<parent_span_id> >>.



=head2 C<on_finish>

Maybe a L<CodeRef|Types::Standard/"CodeRef"> that will gets executed when
C<finish> gets called. Its only parameter, is the C<Span> invocant itself.

Its usefulnes currently is for dealing with c<span> inside C<Tracer>.

See L<< C<finish> >>.


=head1 INSTANCE METHODS



=head2 C<get_operation_name>

The accessor for the L<< C<operatation_name> >>

=over

=item Returns

=over

=item C<Str>

=back

=back



=head2 C<has_finished>

The state wether or not L<< C<finish> >> has been called or
not.

=over

=item Returns

=over

=item C<Bool>

=back

=back



=head2 C<get_span_id>

The identifier of the C<Span> itself, through its span context.

=over

=item Returns

=over

=item C<Uuid>

=back

=back



=head2 C<get_parent_span_id>

The identifier of the parent C<Span>

=over

=item Returns

=over

=item C<Uuid>

=back

=back



=head2 C<duration>

The time (in seconds) between start and finish. This will C<croak> when either
L<< C<start_time> >> or L<< C<finish_time> >> has not been set yet.

=over

=item Returns

=over

=item C<Num> number of seconds

=back

=back



=head2 C<epoch_floatingpoint>

A helper method to make it explicit that the time is in floating point, and not
the usual integer number of seconds since epoch.

=over

=item Returns

=over

=item C<Num> number of seconds since epoch

=back

=back



=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<OpenTracing::Types>

Type constraints for checking Interfaces

=item L<OpenTracing::Interface::Span>

A role that defines the Span interface

=back



=head1 AUTHOR

Theo van Hoesel <tvanhoesel@perceptyx.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

'OpenTracing API for Perl' is Copyright (C) 2019 .. 2020, Perceptyx Inc

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but it is
provided "as is" and without any express or implied warranties.

For details, see the full text of the license in the file LICENSE.

=cut

