=head1 NAME

Conventions used in the mod_perl Documentation

=head1 Description

We use a number of conventions in this documentation, that are mostly
easy to understand; if you're in doubt, look here for the explanation.


=head1 Prompts

For commands that should be typed in your shell (or your I<Command
prompt>, or whatever your OS calls it), we use the following prompts:

  % ls -l

for the user-mode prompt (ie. a normal user account, with no special
privileges).

  # ls -l

for the superuser prompt: this means you'll have to change users to
become the super user on your platform. On Unix you can use the C<su>
or C<sudo> utilities to gain superuser privileges (provided you know
the I<root> password); on other platforms you might have to change the
user -- to I<Administrator> for example on Windows.

If you cannot obtain super user privileges, there will often be
explanations about how doing the selected task without those
privileges; in any other case, contact your system administrator.

On documents specific to a certain Operating System, the prompt might
change. For example, in Windows documentation, we might use:

  C:\> nmake

instead of any other prompt.


=head1 Typographical conventions

We try to be consisten about our use of different fonts and faces, so
that you'll recognize special words more easily.

=over

=item *

I<Italic>

is used for file names or things you have to replace.

=item *

C<Constant width>

is used for commands/program names, configuration items or Perl
code/function names, and manpage references.

=item *

B<Bold>

is used for things we want to stress.

=back

=cut
