=for Pod::Coverage empty

=head1 NAME

Chess::Opening::Book::Move - A move for an opening book entry.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	$book = Chess::Opening::Book::Polyglot->new('opening.bin');
	$entry = $book->lookupFEN($fen) or die "position not found";
	$moves = $entry->moves;
	foreach (keys %$moves) {
		my $move = $moves->{$_};
		$weight = $move;
	}

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A B<Chess::Opening::Book::Move> is one of the possible moves listed for a
certain position in a L<Chess::Opening::Book>.

Each move has a "weight" resp. "count" property that specifies the number
of times that move has been successfully played for a specific position.
You can compare this information with the weight of other moves for the
same position in order to estimate the likelihood of success, when picking
this move.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<new KEY, VALUE, ...>

You should normally not use the constructor.  It is called by the
L<Chess::Opening::Book> that you query.

The constructor accepts the following named arguments:

=over 8

=item B<- move: a text representation of the move>

=item B<- count: the number of times the move was played successfully>

=item B<- learn: for private use, usually 0>

=back

=item B<weight>

The weight of the move.

=item B<count>

An alias for B<weight()>, see above.

=item B<move>

A textual representation of the move.

=item B<learn>

For private use, usually 0.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2019 Guido Flohr <guido.flohr@cantanea.com>,
all rights reserved.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Chess::Opening::Book>, L<Chess::Opening::Book::Entry>,
L<Chess::Opening::Book::Move>, perl(1)
