=head1 NAME

DBD::Sys::Roadmap - high level to do list and targetted goals

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This page provides a high level overview about the future extensions of
the DBD::Sys module and the improvements of the module itself.

The planned extensions and improvements always cover testing, performance,
portability etc.

=head1 EXTENSIONS

=head2 TABLES

=over 8

=item Disks and Volume Groups

Desired coverage is lvm2 on Linux, Veritas Volume Manager, ZFS,
lvm on AIX, Sun Logical Volume Manager, Vinum (FreeBSD), ccd or
raidframe on NetBSD and (hopefully) many, many more.

Associations should be possible between physical disks and volume groups
as well as between volume groups or disks and file systems.

=item Installed Software Packages

All major packaging systems should be supported: rpm, dpkg, pkg (BSD), pkg
(Solaris), lpp (AIX), sw_list (HP-UX), ...

=item More Networking Tables

... like routing information, firewall states, ...

=item Health Information

like last backup time, backup sizes, database roles, login failures (system,
databases, ...)

=back

And there may be many, many more which can be collected via an SQL interface,
collected at one single point via L<DBD::Gofer> proxying, added to reports
via L<Template::DBI> and L<Template::Plugin::Latex>.

=head1 IMPROVEMENTS

=over 8

=item Modification on some Tables

For example, add a new row to C<PROCS> should start a new process (detached,
in background) or deleting a row should kill that process.

=item Support additional DBI information

Get additional information via get_info, column_info, primary_key_info,
primary_key, foreign_key_info, statistics_info, tables, type_info_all and
type_info is currently not implemented.

=item Extend Tests to more Platforms

Being able to analyse the modules behaviour on several platforms would allow
not just make tests pass, it would allow to improve the support for those
platforms.

=back

=head1 RESOURCES AND CONTRIBUTIONS

There're several ways how you can help to support future development: You can
hire the author to implement the features you require at most (this also
defines priorities), you can negotiate a support and maintenance contract
with the company of the author and you can provide patches.

