=head1 NAME

CHANGES - Revision history for WordNet::Extend

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Version 1.000 (Released 08/06/2017)

=over

=item (1) 

Added bin creation to install to allow word2vecSimilarity.py to be installed and run.

=back

=head2 Version 0.060 (Released 03/19/2017)

=over

=item (1)

Added word2vec method to Locate.

=item (2) 

Major fixes to Insert which were causing QueryData tests to fail.

=item (3) 

Fix to Insert which wasn't allowing capital letter words to be inserted.

=item (4) 

Fix to Insert to allow verbs' frames to be added which were being cut out before.

=item (5)

Added word2vec test in WN-Locate.t

=item (6) 

Updated examples in Extend which were causing errors.

=item (7) 

Added outData directory to store various outData's run on the test data 

=item (8)

Added examplesLocate directory to store various examples on using the Locate method.

=item (9)

Added restorewordnet.pl to main directory to allow easy restoration of WordNet.

=back

=head2 Version 0.051 (Released 01/16/2017)

=over

=item (1)

Fixed locate tests causing failure.

=back

=head2 Version 0.050 (Released 01/16/2017)

=over

=item (1)

Added Similarity scoring method to Locate.pm

=item (2) 

Added corresponding Sim test in WN-Locate.t

=back

=head2 Version 0.040 (Released 11/08/2016)

=over

=item (1)

Added BwS (baseline with stemming) scoring method to Locate.pm

=item (2)

Added corresponding BwS test in WN-Locate.t

=back

=head2 Version 0.030 (Released 10/13/2016)

=over

=item (1)

Fixed insertion error causing command line 'wn' to seg fault. 

=item (2)

Fixed error preventing user from inserting multiple new lemmas at once.

=back

=head2 Version 0.020 (Released 09/29/2016)

=over

=item (1)

Fixed documentation for Extend, Insert, and Locate.

=item (2)

Added new error check for Insert to make sure the user is not specifying a non existing lemma for a location.

=item (3)

Added new revertLastChange() function which allows the user to take back only the most recent insert.

=back

=head2 Version 0.014 (Released 09/19/2016)

=over

=item (1)

Added pod for README and Changes.

=item (2)

Fixed synopsis example to allow user to copy and paste right out of the box.

=item (3)

Separated the insert functionality from the locate functionality. Insert exists in Insert.pm and locate in Locate.pm. This results in WordNet::Insert becoming WordNet::Extend.

=item (4)

Added attach() and merge() function into Insert.pm which inserts lemma into specified location in WordNet. The old insert() function, which locates where they should be inserted, has been changed to locate(). insertFile() has also been changed to locateFile().

=item (5)

Added test case for inserting item into WordNet.

=back

=head2 Version 0.02 (Released 05/26/2016)

=over 

=item (1)

Fixed test file to properly use Test::More.

=back

=head2 Version 0.01 (Released 05/24/2016)

=head1 AUTHORS

  Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth
  tpederse at d.umn.edu

  Jon Rusert, University of Minnesota, Duluth
  ruse0008 at d.umn.edu

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2016, Ted Pedersen, Jonathan D Rusert

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


=cut
