# run perldoc on this file to get nicely formatted documentation

=head1 NAME

README - Introduction to WordNet::Extend

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This package contains Perl modules that implement the ability
to locate a calculated place for inserting a new out of vocabulary 
(OOV) Lemma into WordNet. This is accomplished primarily by overlaps 
desribed by Lesk (1986), and the extended gloss overlap
measure described by Banerjee and Pedersen (2003).

The Perl modules are designed as objects that takes in OOV
Lemma(s) and outputs the highest scoring WordNet sense
matched to the OOV Lemma. These modules allow the insertion
of a single OOV Lemma or a whole file of OOV Lemmas. The 
modules also allow tweaking of the clean up process the lemmas
undergo alogn with the options of what items are included in
the overlaps to allow greater control of how the best sense
is calculated.

This package also contains a module that implements the ability
for a user to insert new words into WordNet.

=head1 CONTENTS

The package contains the extend modules along with usable
data files and old data from SemEval14-2016.

=head2 Modules

All the modules that will be installed in the Perl system directory are
in the '/lib' folder in this package. These include Insert.pm and Locate.pm. 
All these modules, once installed in the Perl system directory, can be directly
used by Perl programs.

=head2 Samples

If the proper package was downloaded, a '/samples' subdirectory should
appear in the package. This subdirectory contains example files that 
can be run by using the locateFile() method in Extend::Locate.pm.
 $obj->locateFile('samples/inSample','samples/outSample');       

=head1 REFERENCES

1. Michael Lesk. Automatic sense disambiguation using
   machine readable dictionaries: How to tell a pine cone
   from an ice cream cone. In Proceedings of the 5th An-
   nual International Conference on Systems Documen-
   tation, SIGDOC '86, pages 24-26, New York, NY,
   USA, 1986. ACM.

2. Banerjee S. and Pedersen T. 2003. Extended Gloss Overlaps as a
   Measure of Semantic Relatedness. In the Proceedings of the
   Eighteenth International Joint Conference on Artificial
   Intelligence. Acapulco, Mexico.

=head1 INSTALLATION

To install this module type the following:

 perl Makefile.PL
 make
 make test
 make install

=head1 AUTHORS

Jon Rusert, University of Minnesota Duluth
ruse0008 at d.umn.edu	

Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota Duluth
tpederse at d.umn.edu 

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2016, Jon Rusert, Ted Pedersen

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=cut
 
