=head1 NAME

PBib Intro - The PBib Input Document Format and Styles

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	perl pbib.pl I<filename>
	pbib I<filename>
	PBibTk.pl I<filename>

=head1 INTRODUCTION

This is a short introduction to the L</PBib Input Document Format> and provided L</PBib Styles>. You may first want to read L<PBib::PBib/QUICK START> how to get pbib running.

=head1 PBib Input Document Format

=head2 PBib Fields

In your document, there can be three types of fields that are 
interpreted by PBib.

=over

=item B<[[I<reference>]] or [[I<ref 1>], [I<ref 2>]]>

A reference to some material, paper, document, whatever ... (BibTeX' \cite{...}). You can also cite several references within the 
same field.

The references are identified with their "CiteKey" which is specified 
in the bibliography database. It depends on the database type, how 
the CiteKey is specified. BibTeX places the CiteKey before listing 
other fields (see also L</PBib Reference Types> below):

	@inproceedings{BEACH-ConnecTables,
	   author = {Peter Tandler and Thorsten Prante and Christian M{\"u}ller-Tomfelde and Norbert Streitz and Ralf Steinmetz},
	   title = {ConnecTables: Dynamic Coupling of Displays for the Flexible Creation of Shared Workspaces},
	   booktitle = {Proceedings of 14th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface and Software Technology (UIST'01)},
	   location = {Orlando, Florida, USA},
	   pages = {11--20},
	   publisher = {ACM Press, New York, NY},
	   month = {Nov. 11-14},
	   year = {2001},
	   url = {http://ipsi.fraunhofer.de/ambiente/publications/},
	}

In this example "BEACH-ConnecTables" is the CiteKey (while "@inproceedings" is the CiteType). This paper can be referenced in
the text as [[BEACH-ConnecTables]].


=item B<[{}] or [{“Authors” LIKE ‘%Tandler%’}]>

The list of references, which may include filters. The filters are
specified as a subset of SQL's "where" clause syntax. Not all bibliography database formats support filters.


=item B<[< I<some comment> >] or [# I<some todo marker> #]>

This can be used for placing comments in the input document while
writing. It is formatted by PBib or removed (if PBib is run in the 
"final" mode).

=back

=head3 Examples

	One major property of ubiquitous computing environments 
	is the heterogeneity of the available devices. In order 
	to provide a “coherent user experience” [[EasyLiving-Technologies], [Roomware-NextGeneration]], 
	the “system must have a deeper understanding of the 
	physical space” [[EasyLiving-Technologies], p. 3].

	References
	[{}]

	Peter’s References
	[{“Authors” LIKE ‘%Seitz%’ or “Authors” LIKE ‘%Tandler%’}]
	
	[< add some more detailed example here >]
	[## I think I should clarify this! ##]


=head2 PBib Field Options

You can add options to PBib fields that control how a L<style|/PBib Styles> 
formats the field. Options are 
specified at the beginning of a field, starting with a colon.

I<Please note:> Not all styles support all options. Not all options 
can be combined.

	[ :I<option1> :I<option2> ... | [I<references>] ]

=over

=item B<:inline>

Styles that use the authors' names to generate the reference, 
are instructed to inline the author's name in the text. For example, the Label Style "Name" generates "Tandler (2001)" instead of 
"(Tandler, 2001)" if the inline option is given. This can be used
if the authors name is used as part of a sentence, e.g. "Tandler (2001) introduced the idea of ..." can be written "[ :inline |
[BEACH-ConnecTables]] introduced the idea of ...".

	[:inline|[COAST-Model]]
	[:inline|[COAST-Model], p. 4]
	[ : inline :   etal  = 5  |  [COAST-Model], p. 3]

=item B<:noauthor>

The author's name is suppressed. The Label Style "Name" only outputs the year, e.g. "[ :noauthor | [BEACH-ConnecTables]]" generates "(2001)". Use this, if you have mentioned the author's name already 
in the text yourself, e.g. "Tandler [ :noauthor | [BEACH-ConnecTables]] introduced ...".

=item B<:noparens>

The parentheses around the reference are suppressed, e.g. "Tandler, 2001" instead of "(Tandler, 2001)". You can use this if you place the 
reference inside parentheses yourself.

=back

I<Hint:> You can process this introduction (i.e. the text you are just reading) with pbib to get an idea of 
how the fields are formatted. (Be sure to change to the F<docs> directory so that PBib finds the right F<local.pbib> configuration file.



=head1 PBib Styles

To specify which style should be used for a document, the easiest way is to use one of the predefined styles from the F<styles> directory. For a document F<I<filename.ext>> PBib searches for a PBib style file called F<I<filename>.pbib> or F<I<filename.ext>.pbib>. In this file you can include the predefined style with the C<include> statement, e.g. C<include styles/IEEE/TR.pbib>.


=head2 Custom Styles

There are two ways of defining custom styles. Adding PBib Style classes (which requires writing perl code) and combining the PBib styles in a custom way. Here, a very brief introduction for the later is given.

PBib styles are combined from four sub-styles, that each is configured by a couple of configuration entries. The sub-styles are:

=over

=item B<Bibliography Style> (C<bib>)

The overall style for the list of references.

=item B<Bibliography Item Style> (C<item>)

The style to format each entry (item) within the list of references.

=item B<Label Style> (C<label>)

The label for references, used both at the citation and the list of references.

=item B<Reference Style> (C<ref>)

The style to format the reference (citation) within the text.

=back

For now, please look at the provided styles in the F<styles> directory and the perl style classes 
L<PBib::BibliographyStyle|PBib::BibliographyStyle>, 
L<PBib::BibItemStyle|PBib::BibItemStyle>,
L<PBib::LabelStyle|PBib::LabelStyle>, and
L<PBib::ReferenceStyle|PBib::ReferenceStyle>.



=head1 PBib Reference Types

PBib supports the reference types as BibTeX and bp, with some additions / modifications. 

Please, take a look at F<docs/CiteTypes.sxc> for more information.
(I<Note:> The reference types are implemented in class L<PBib::BibItemStyle|PBib::BibItemStyle>.)

=over

=item B<article>

[[BEACH-AppModel+FW]]

=item B<book>

[[BuildAppFWs], [Carroll-HCIMillennium]]

=item B<booklet>

=item B<inbook>

=item B<incollection>

[[Roomware-NextGeneration], [Multimodal-UI-Design]]

=item B<inproceedings, conference>

[[COAST-Model], [BEACH-ConnecTables]]

=item B<journal>

[[CACM.CFW], [CACM.OOFW]]

=item B<manual>

[[COAST-Overview], [VisualWorks-UsersGuide]]

=item B<thesis, masterthesis, phdthesis>

[[BEACH-ContextMaker], [Jacobsen-SoftwareModelling], [Nowack-Structures+Interactions], [Schilit-PhDThesis]]

=item B<misc>

=item B<proceedings>

[[UIST01], [HUC00]]

=item B<report>

[[Gaia-AppModel], [Groupware-Architectures]]

with new label (RepType): [[Pebbles-Amulet]]

=item B<unpublished, email>

=item B<url, web>

[[COAST-Homepage], [VisualWorks-Homepage], [SMART-Homepage], [iRoom-Homepage], [Pebbles-Homepage]]

=item B<talk, speech, slides>

[[BEACH-ConnecTables-slides], [BEACH-SyncCollaboration-slides]]

=item B<patent>

[[Cooltown-EmbeddedWebAccess]]

=item B<avmatierial, video, cdrom, poster>

=back

=cut
