=head1 NAME

ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Applications::CGI is a Perl module that provides a nice object oriented interface for ASNMTAP CGI Applications

=head1 Description

ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Applications::CGI Subclass of ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Applications

This version is still the old ASNMTAP Applications v3.000.001 addapted for using with the new ASNMTAP::Asnmtap, ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins and ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins::Nagios plugins.

We are working onto an new Object Oriented version for the ASNMTAP Applications

=head1 PROGRAMS

=over 4

=item located at /opt/asnmtap/applications/htmlroot/cgi-bin

=over 4

=item comments.pl

this program make it possible to set comments on an plugin through the CGI Interface.

=item contact.pl

this program make it possible to contact the server admins through the CGI Interface.

=item detailedStatisticsReportGenerationAndCompareResponsetimeTrends.pl

this program make it possible to generate and compare plugin charts through the CGI Interface.

=item detailedStatisticsReportGenerationAndCompareResponsetimeTrends.pl.book

this file defined the look and feel for the PDF files.

=item generateChart.pl

this program make it possible to generate the plugin charts through the CGI Interface.

=item getArchivedDebug.pl

this program make it possible to get the plugin debug files through the CGI Interface.

=item getArchivedDisplays.pl

this program make it possible to get the display archives through the CGI Interface.

=item getArchivedReport.pl

this program make it possible to get the plugin report files through the CGI Interface.

=item getArchivedResults.pl

this program make it possible to get the plugin results files through the CGI Interface.

=item getHelpPlugin.pl

this program make it possible to get the plugin help docs through the CGI Interface.

=item htmlToPdf.pl

this program make it possible to convert an html report to an PDF on the fly through the CGI Interface.

=item htmldoc.sh

this shell script make it possible to convert an html report to an PDF.

=item info.pl

this program make it possible to get the info page through the CGI Interface.

=item perfparse.pl

this program make it possible to access perfparse, when installed, through the CGI Interface.

=item runCmdOnDemand.pl

this program make it possible to run a plugin on demand through the CGI Interface.

=item users.pl

this program make it possible change the current logged in user setting through the CGI Interface.

=back

=item located at /opt/asnmtap/applications/htmlroot/cgi-bin/admin

=over 4

=item index.pl

this program make generate the admin menu through the CGI Interface.

=item countries.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete countries through the CGI Interface.

=item holidays.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete holidays through the CGI Interface.

=item holidaysBundle.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete holiday bundles through the CGI Interface.

=item languages.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete languages through the CGI Interface.

=item reports.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete reports (used by generateReports.pl) through the CGI Interface.

=item timeperiods.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete timeperiods through the CGI Interface.

 The record with `timeperiodID` equals '1' must be 'No Time Is A Good Time', otherwise you will have problems!
 `catalogID`       '000'
 `timeperiodID`    '1'
 `timeperiodAlias` 'none'
 `timeperiodName`  'No Time Is A Good Time'
 `sunday`          ''
 `monday`          ''
 `tuesday`         ''
 `wednesday`       ''
 `thursday`        ''
 `friday`          ''
 `saturday`        ''
 `activated`       '1'

=item users.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete users through the CGI Interface.

=back

=item located at /opt/asnmtap/applications/htmlroot/cgi-bin/moderator

=over 4

=item index.pl

this program make generate the moderator menu through the CGI Interface.

=item collectorCrontabSchedulingReports.pl

this program allow you to create all the collector crontab scheduling reports through the CGI Interface.

=item collectorDaemonSchedulingReports.pl

this program allow you to create all the collector daemon scheduling reports through the CGI Interface.

=item comments.pl

this program allow you to set comments by selecting a uKey from a drop and drag list for one ore more tests through the CGI Interface.

=item downtimes.pl

this program allow you to set downtimes by uploading a uKey list for a group of tests through the CGI Interface.

Format uKey without CatalogID (uses default CatalogID) list upload file, example: CatalogIDuKeyList.txt

# ASNMTAP DOWNTIMES
DUMMY-T1
DUMMY-T3
DUMMY-T5
EOF

or Format uKey with CatalogID list upload file, example: CatalogIDuKeyList.txt

# ASNMTAP DOWNTIMES
CID_DUMMY-T1
CID_DUMMY-T3
CID_DUMMY-T5
EOF

=item generateCollectorCrontabSchedulingReport.pl

this program allow you to create one collector crontab scheduling report through the CGI Interface.

=item generateCollectorDaemonSchedulingReport.pl

this program allow you to create one collector daemon scheduling report through the CGI Interface.

=item generatePluginCrontabSchedulingReport.pl

this program allow you to create one plugin crontab scheduling report through the CGI Interface.

=item pluginCrontabSchedulingReports.pl

this program allow you to create all the plugin crontab scheduling report through the CGI Interface.

=item runStatusOnDemand.pl

this program allow you to view and manage the status from the Displays and Collectors through the CGI Interface.

=item sessions.pl

this program allow you to view, modify and delete sessions through the CGI Interface.

=back

=item located at /opt/asnmtap/applications/htmlroot/cgi-bin/sadmin

=over 4

=item index.pl

this program make generate the sadmin menu through the CGI Interface.

=item catalog.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete the Catalog through the CGI Interface.

=item collectorDaemons.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete collector daemons through the CGI Interface.

When the field 'groupName' from the table 'collectorDaemon' contains 'Admin Collector [<hostname>]'

=item crontabs.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete crontab through the CGI Interface.

=item displayDaemons.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete display daemons through the CGI Interface.

=item displayGroups.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete display groups through the CGI Interface.

=item generateConfig.pl

when there are servers configurated in failover:

- onto the active server: only the file 'Display-<pagedir>.sh' and 'Collector-<deamon>.sh' are included

- onto both servers: are both files 'CollectorCT-<deamon>.sh' included when <deamon> eq <hostname>

this program allow you to generate the needed ArchiveCT, DisplayCT-*, CollectorCT-* config files and all used shell scripts through the CGI Interface.

=item pagedirs.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete page dirs through the CGI Interface.

=item plugins.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete plugins through the CGI Interface.

=item resultsdirs.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete results dirs through the CGI Interface.

=item servers.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete servers dirs through the CGI Interface.

=item views.pl

this program allow you to add, modify and delete views through the CGI Interface.

=back

=back

=head1 EXPORT

...

=head1 AUTHOR

Alex Peeters [alex.peeters@citap.be]

=head1 SEE ALSO

ASNMTAP::Asnmtap, ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Applications

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

 ASNMTAP::Time
 ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Applications
 Carp
 CGI::Session
 Date::Calc
 NetAddr::IP
 Time::Local

=head1 COPYRIGHT NOTICE

(c) Copyright 2000-2011 by Alex Peeters [alex.peeters@citap.be],
                        All Rights Reserved.

ASNMTAP is based on 'Process System daemons v1.60.17-01', Alex Peeters [alex.peeters@citap.be]

 Purpose: CronTab (CT, sysdCT),
          Disk Filesystem monitoring (DF, sysdDF),
          Intrusion Detection for FW-1 (ID, sysdID)
          Process System daemons (PS, sysdPS),
          Reachability of Remote Hosts on a network (RH, sysdRH),
          Rotate Logfiles (system activity files) (RL),
          Remote Socket monitoring (RS, sysdRS),
          System Activity monitoring (SA, sysdSA).

'Process System daemons' is based on 'sysdaemon 1.60' written by Trans-Euro I.T Ltd

=head1 LICENSE

This ASNMTAP CPAN library and Plugin templates are free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The other parts of ASNMTAP may be used and modified free of charge by anyone so long as this copyright notice and the comments above remain intact. By using this code you agree to indemnify Alex Peeters from any liability that might arise from it's use.

Selling the code for this program without prior written consent is expressly forbidden. In other words, please ask first before you try and make money off of my program.

Obtain permission before redistributing this software over the Internet or in any other medium. In all cases copyright and header must remain intact.

=cut