
=pod

=head1 NAME

Frost::Cookbook::Glossar - The meaning of life

=head1 ABSTRACT

Some explanations of words used with L<Frost|Frost>.

=head1 GLOSSAR

Source is L<http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/> unless otherwise noted.

=head2 Asylum

=over

=item A place of safety

=item The protection, physical and legal, afforded by such a place.

=item A place of protection or restraint for one or more classes of the disadvantaged, especially the mentally ill.

=back

=head3 Synonyms

=over

=item sanctuary

=item shelter

=back

=head3 Frost

=over

=item Object factory and storage management

=back

=head2 Burial

=over

=item The act of burying

=back

=head3 Synonyms

=over

=item deposition

=item inhumation

=item interment

=item deep six

=back

=head3 Frost

=over

=item Object storage backend

=back

=head2 Cemetery

=over

=item A place where the dead are buried.

=back

=head3 Synonyms

=over

=item graveyard

=item memorial park

=back

=head3 Frost

=over

=item Object storage

=back

=head2 Illuminator

=head3 to illuminate

=over

=item to shine light on something

=item to decorate something with lights

=item to clarify or make something understandable

=item to decorate the page of a manuscript book with ornamental designs

=item to glow

=item to be exposed to light

=back

=head3 Frost

=over

=item Object index

=back

=head2 Locum

=head3 Abbreviated form of locum tenens.

=over

=item A professional person (such as a doctor or clergyman) who temporarily fulfills the duties of another.

=back

=head3 Synonyms

=over

=item proxy

=item stand-in

=back

=head3 Frost

=over

=item Proxying base object

=back

=head2 Inquisition

=over

=item an investigation or inquiry into the truth of some matter

=item an inquest

=item a questioning

=back

=head3 Frost

=over

=item FAQ - frequently asked question

=back

=head2 Mortician

=over

=item An undertaker or funeral director

=back

=head3 Frost

=over

=item Object storage management helper

=back

=head2 Necromancer

=over

=item A person who practices necromancy.

=back

=head3 necromancy

=over

=item Divination involving the dead or death.

=back

=head3 divination

=over

=item The act of divining, a foreseeing or foretelling of future events.

=item The pretended art of discovering secrets or the future by preternatural means.

=item An indication of what is future or secret, augury omen, conjectural presage, prediction.

=back

=head3 Frost

=over

=item Object storage manager

=back

=head2 Twilight

=over

=item The soft light in the sky seen before the rising and
(especially) after the setting of the sun, occasioned by the
illumination of the earth's atmosphere by the direct rays of the sun
and their reflection on the earth.

=item The time when this light is visible, the period between daylight and darkness.

=item Any faint light through which something is seen, an in-between or fading condition.

=back

=head3 Frost

=over

=item Object cache

=back

=head2 Vault

=over

=item An arched structure of masonry, forming a ceiling or canopy.

=item A structure resembling a vault, especially (poetic) that formed by the sky.

=item A secure, enclosed area, especially an underground room used for burial, or to store valuables, wine etc.

=back

=head3 Frost

=over

=item Persistent options

=back

=head2 VERBOTEN

=over

=item From German verboten ("forbidden").

=item A loanword with connotations of state authoritarianism, derived from a perception of the German Empire under Wilhelm II or Nazi Germany. Contemporary usage may be jocular.

=item Germany's most favourite word [source: Everyone's experience ;-) ]

=back

=head1 GETTING HELP

I'm reading the Moose mailing list frequently, so please ask your
questions there.

The mailing list is L<moose@perl.org>. You must be subscribed to send
a message. To subscribe, send an empty message to
L<moose-subscribe@perl.org>

=head1 BUGS

All complex software has bugs lurking in it, and this module is no
exception.

Please report any bugs to me or the mailing list.

=head1 AUTHOR

Ernesto L<ernesto@dienstleistung-kultur.de>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2010 by Dienstleistung Kultur Ltd. & Co. KG

L<http://dienstleistung-kultur.de/frost/>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
