=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Time::LeapSecond - Leap second table with TAI/UTC conversions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Time::LeapSecond qw( posix_tai_offset
                             posix_to_tai tai_to_posix
                             rdn_leap_correction
                             load_leapseconds_tzdb
                             load_leapseconds_iers
                             parse_leapseconds_tzdb
                             parse_leapseconds_iers );
    
    use Time::Str::Calendar qw( ymd_to_rdn );
    
    # TAI-UTC offset (in seconds) at a POSIX time
    my $offset = posix_tai_offset(1700000000);  # 37
    
    # Convert between POSIX and TAI epochs
    my $tai   = posix_to_tai(1700000000);
    my $posix = tai_to_posix($tai);
    
    # Does a calendar day carry a leap second? (keyed by Rata Die day number)
    my $rdn  = ymd_to_rdn(2016, 12, 31);
    my $corr = rdn_leap_correction($rdn);   # +1, -1, or 0
    
    # Refresh the table from a system leap seconds file
    my $count = load_leapseconds_tzdb();    # IANA TZDB "leapseconds"
    #   or
    my $count = load_leapseconds_iers();    # IERS/NIST "leap-seconds.list"

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Time::LeapSecond> provides the history of leap seconds and functions
for computing the TAI-UTC offset, for converting between POSIX and TAI
epochs, and for asking whether a given calendar day carries a leap
second. The non-TAI side is a POSIX C<time_t> (a UTC-based count that
omits leap seconds and so cannot represent C<23:59:60>), which is why
these names say C<posix> rather than C<utc>.

The module ships with a built-in table of known leap seconds that is
used as a fallback. At load time it makes a best-effort attempt to
refresh the table from the system's IANA Time Zone Database
F<leapseconds> file; if that file is absent, unreadable, or malformed
the built-in table remains in effect. The table can also be refreshed
explicitly from either the TZDB or the IERS/NIST file format.

The table stores the cumulative TAI-UTC offset at each transition, so
it represents both positive (inserted) and negative (removed) leap
seconds. No negative leap second has ever been scheduled, but the data
structure and the parsers support them.

All functions are exportable on request. Use C<:all> to import
everything.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 posix_tai_offset

    my $offset = posix_tai_offset($time);

Returns the TAI-UTC offset, in seconds, in effect at the POSIX time
C<$time>. The offset is C<10> before the first leap second and changes
by one second (up or down) at each subsequent leap second.

=head2 posix_to_tai

    my $tai = posix_to_tai($posix);

Converts a POSIX epoch to the corresponding TAI epoch by adding the
TAI-UTC offset in effect at C<$posix>.

=head2 tai_to_posix

    my $posix = tai_to_posix($tai);

Converts a TAI epoch to the corresponding POSIX epoch by subtracting the
TAI-UTC offset in effect at C<$tai>.

This is the inverse of C<posix_to_tai> for representable instants. A TAI
epoch that falls within an inserted (positive) leap second folds onto
the preceding C<23:59:59> (the same POSIX value as that second, which it
effectively repeats), because POSIX time cannot represent C<23:59:60>.
This matches the convention used by the IANA C<tz> code and its TZif
C<right/> zones. A removed (negative) leap second leaves a gap instead:
the POSIX value of the deleted C<23:59:59> never occurs.

=head2 rdn_leap_correction

    my $corr = rdn_leap_correction($rdn);

Given the Rata Die day number C<$rdn> of a UTC calendar day, returns
the leap second correction applied at the end of that day: C<+1> if a
positive leap second is inserted, C<-1> if a negative leap second is
removed, or C<0> if the day carries no leap second.

A leap second is a property of a calendar day rather than of an instant
(POSIX time cannot represent the C<23:59:60> second), so this query is
keyed by day number. Use C<Time::Str::Calendar::ymd_to_rdn> to obtain a
day number from a year, month, and day.

=head2 parse_leapseconds_tzdb

    my ($days, $corrections) = parse_leapseconds_tzdb($path);

Parses an IANA Time Zone Database F<leapseconds> file and returns two
array references describing each leap second as a property of the
calendar day it falls on: C<$days> holds the Rata Die day number of
each leap day, and C<$corrections> the matching change in the TAI-UTC
offset (C<+1> for a positive leap second, C<-1> for a negative one).
Both are in ascending order of day. Comments and blank lines are
ignored.

Croaks if the file cannot be opened, if a C<Leap> line is malformed, if
a C<Leap> line's time does not match its sign (a positive leap second
must be C<23:59:60>, a negative one C<23:59:59>), or if the entries are
not in ascending order of day. An out-of-order file is treated as
malformed rather than silently reordered.

This function has no side effects; it does not modify the tables used by
the other functions.

=head2 parse_leapseconds_iers

    my ($days, $corrections) = parse_leapseconds_iers($path);

Parses an IERS/NIST F<leap-seconds.list> file and returns the same
C<($days, $corrections)> pair as C<parse_leapseconds_tzdb>. This file is
keyed on NTP time (seconds since 1900-01-01) and lists the I<absolute>
TAI-UTC offset at each transition; epochs are converted to Rata Die day 
number and each change is turned into a C<+1>/C<-1> correction on the
preceding day. The leading base row anchors the table and is dropped.

Croaks if the file cannot be opened, if a data line is malformed, if an
epoch is not a UTC midnight, if the first (base) row does not state the
base offset of C<10> seconds (which would indicate a truncated file),
if the offset changes by more than one second between consecutive
transitions, or if the entries are not in ascending order of time.

This function has no side effects.

=head2 load_leapseconds_tzdb

    my $count = load_leapseconds_tzdb();
    my $count = load_leapseconds_tzdb($path);

Parses an IANA Time Zone Database F<leapseconds> file with
C<parse_leapseconds_tzdb> and installs the result into the package
tables. Returns the number of entries loaded.

When called without arguments the file is located via
C<Time::Str::Util::find_tzdb_directory>. In this automatic mode a
missing system file is not an error: the function returns C<undef> and
leaves the current table intact so the built-in fallback remains in
effect. An explicit path that cannot be opened, or any file that is
malformed or contains no leap seconds, raises an exception rather than
being silently discarded.

=head2 load_leapseconds_iers

    my $count = load_leapseconds_iers();
    my $count = load_leapseconds_iers($path);

As C<load_leapseconds_tzdb>, but parses an IERS/NIST
F<leap-seconds.list> file with C<parse_leapseconds_iers>. In automatic
mode the file is located as F<leap-seconds.list> within the TZDB
directory.

=head1 INITIALISATION

At load time the module builds its tables exactly once: it first tries
the system TZDB F<leapseconds> file (only that format is tried
automatically) and, only if that file is absent, unreadable, or
malformed, falls back to the built-in table. The fallback is installed
through the same code path as a parsed file. A failure at this stage
leaves the fallback in place rather than breaking C<use
Time::LeapSecond>; call C<load_leapseconds_tzdb> or
C<load_leapseconds_iers> explicitly if you need to observe load errors.

=head1 THE LEAP SECOND TABLE

The leap second history is held in these package globals:

=over 4

=item C<@Time::LeapSecond::TIMES>

The POSIX epoch at which each leap second takes effect: the midnight
immediately following the inserted C<23:59:60> second (or, for a
negative leap second, the removed C<23:59:59> second). Sorted in
ascending order.

=item C<@Time::LeapSecond::OFFSETS>

The cumulative TAI-UTC offset, in seconds. This array has one more entry
than C<@TIMES>: C<$OFFSETS[0]> is the base offset (C<10>) in effect
before the first leap second, and C<$OFFSETS[$k]> is the offset in
effect after C<$k> leap seconds. It changes by C<+1> (positive leap
second) or C<-1> (negative leap second) from one entry to the next.

=item C<@Time::LeapSecond::CORRECTIONS>

The per-leap-second C<+1>/C<-1> change, aligned with C<@OFFSETS>:
C<$CORRECTIONS[0]> is C<0> (the no-correction base) and
C<$CORRECTIONS[$k]> is the change applied by the C<$k>-th leap second.

=back

=head1 DATA FILES

=head2 IERS/NIST format (F<leap-seconds.list>)

=over 4

=item IERS: L<https://hpiers.obspm.fr/iers/bul/bulc/ntp/leap-seconds.list>

=item IANA TZDB: L<https://data.iana.org/time-zones/tzdb/leap-seconds.list>

=item GitHub (eggert/tz): L<https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eggert/tz/main/leap-seconds.list>

=back

=head2 TZDB format (F<leapseconds>)

=over 4

=item IANA TZDB: L<https://data.iana.org/time-zones/tzdb/leapseconds>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Time::Str>, L<Time::Str::Util>, L<Time::Str::Calendar>

=head1 AUTHOR

Christian Hansen

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2026 by Christian Hansen

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
