=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Time::TZif - TZif timezone file parser with configurable local time resolution

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Time::TZif;
    
    my $tz = Time::TZif->new(
      path           => '/usr/share/zoneinfo/America/New_York',
      gap_policy     => 'later',      # default policy for gaps
      overlap_policy => 'earlier',    # default policy for overlaps
    );
    
    # UTC to offset (always unambiguous)
    my $offset = $tz->offset_for_utc($epoch);

    # Local time to offset (uses constructor defaults)
    my $offset = $tz->offset_for_local($epoch);
    
    # Local time to offset (override per call)
    my $offset = $tz->offset_for_local($epoch, gap_policy => 'reject');
    
    # Full type info: ($offset, $is_dst, $abbreviation)
    my ($off, $dst, $abbr) = $tz->type_info_for_utc($epoch);
    my ($off, $dst, $abbr) = $tz->type_info_for_local($epoch, gap_policy => 'std');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Time::TZif> parses TZif binary timezone files (RFC 8536) and
provides methods for resolving UTC and local times to UTC offsets.

Supports TZif version 1 (32-bit timestamps), version 2, and version 3
(64-bit timestamps). When a v2/v3 file is detected and the platform
supports 64-bit integers, the 64-bit data block is used automatically.

For v2/v3 files that contain a POSIX TZ string footer, times after the 
last stored transition are resolved using the footer rules. This allows 
correct handling of future dates beyond the precomputed transition table.

The key challenge in timezone handling is converting I<local> times to
UTC, because DST transitions create two problematic cases:

=over 4

=item B<Gaps> (spring forward)

When clocks spring forward, a range of local times does not exist. For
example, in America/New_York on 2024-03-10, local times 02:00:00 through
02:59:59 do not exist because clocks jump from 02:00 EST to 03:00 EDT.

=item B<Overlaps> (fall back)

When clocks fall back, a range of local times occurs twice. For example,
in America/New_York on 2024-11-03, local times 01:00:00 through 01:59:59 occur
once in EDT and again in EST.

=back

C<offset_for_local> handles both cases through configurable policies
that can be set as defaults in the constructor or overridden per call.

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=head2 new

    my $tz = Time::TZif->new(
      path           => $path,
      name           => 'America/New_York',  # optional
      gap_policy     => 'reject',            # optional, default: 'reject'
      overlap_policy => 'reject',            # optional, default: 'reject'
    );

Creates a new C<Time::TZif> object by parsing the specified TZif file.

=over 4

=item C<path> (required)

Path to a TZif binary timezone file (e.g., C</usr/share/zoneinfo/America/New_York>).

=item C<name> (optional)

IANA timezone name associated with this file (e.g., C<America/New_York>).

=item C<gap_policy> (optional, default: C<reject>)

Default policy for resolving non-existing local times (during
spring-forward gaps). See L</POLICIES>. Can be overridden per call in
C<offset_for_local> and C<type_info_for_local>.

=item C<overlap_policy> (optional, default: C<reject>)

Default policy for resolving ambiguous local times (during fall-back
overlaps). See L</POLICIES>. Can be overridden per call in
C<offset_for_local> and C<type_info_for_local>.

=back

Croaks if the file cannot be opened or is not a valid TZif file.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 offset_for_utc

    my $offset = $tz->offset_for_utc($time);

Returns the UTC offset in seconds for the given UTC epoch time. This is
always unambiguous. For times after the last stored transition,
delegates to the POSIX TZ string footer if available.

=head2 offset_for_local

    my $offset = $tz->offset_for_local($time);
    my $offset = $tz->offset_for_local($time, %opts);

Returns the UTC offset in seconds for the given local epoch time (i.e.,
the epoch value obtained by treating the wall-clock time as if it were UTC).

B<Options>

=over 4

=item C<gap_policy> (default: constructor value)

Policy for non-existing local times. See L</POLICIES>.

=item C<overlap_policy> (default: constructor value)

Policy for ambiguous local times. See L</POLICIES>.

=back

B<Eaxmple>

    use Time::Str::Time qw[timegm_modern];
    
    # Treat wall-clock 2024-03-10 02:30:00 as a UTC epoch
    my $local  = timegm_modern(0, 30, 2, 10, 3, 2024);
    my $offset = $tz->offset_for_local($local);
    
    # The actual UTC epoch is:
    my $utc = $local - $offset;

=head2 type_info_for_utc

    my ($offset, $is_dst, $abbreviation) = $tz->type_info_for_utc($time);

Returns the full type information for the given UTC epoch time. For
times after the last stored transition, delegates to the POSIX TZ
string footer if available.

=over 4

=item C<$offset> - UTC offset in seconds

=item C<$is_dst> - 1 if daylight saving time, 0 otherwise

=item C<$abbreviation> - timezone abbreviation (e.g., "EST", "EDT")

=back

=head2 type_info_for_local

    my ($offset, $is_dst, $abbreviation) = $tz->type_info_for_local($time, %opts);

Returns the full type information for the given local epoch time. Accepts
the same C<gap_policy> and C<overlap_policy> options as C<offset_for_local>.

=head2 name

    my $name = $tz->name;

Returns the timezone name passed to the constructor, or C<undef> if
none was provided.

=head2 has_name

    if ($tz->has_name) { ... }

Returns true if a timezone name was provided to the constructor.

=head2 path

    my $path = $tz->path;

Returns the path used to construct the object.

=head2 modified_time

    my $mtime = $tz->modified_time;

Returns the last modification time of the TZif file at the time it was 
parsed, as a Unix epoch value. This can be used to detect whether the 
file has changed since parsing (e.g., after a tzdata package upgrade).

=head2 gap_policy

    my $policy = $tz->gap_policy;

Returns the default gap policy set in the constructor.

=head2 overlap_policy

    my $policy = $tz->overlap_policy;

Returns the default overlap policy set in the constructor.

=head2 with_name

    my $tz2 = $tz->with_name('Europe/Stockholm');

Returns a new C<Time::TZif> object with the given timezone name, sharing
the parsed TZif data with the original. Croaks if the name is not
structurally valid. Returns the same object if the name is unchanged.

=head2 with_gap_policy

    my $tz2 = $tz->with_gap_policy('later');

Returns a new C<Time::TZif> object with the given gap policy, sharing
the parsed TZif data with the original. Croaks if the policy is not
valid. Returns the same object if the policy is unchanged.

=head2 with_overlap_policy

    my $tz2 = $tz->with_overlap_policy('earlier');

Returns a new C<Time::TZif> object with the given overlap policy, sharing
the parsed TZif data with the original. Croaks if the policy is not
valid. Returns the same object if the policy is unchanged.

=head1 POLICIES

The following policies control how C<offset_for_local> and
C<type_info_for_local> handle the two problematic local time cases
that arise from DST transitions.

For B<gaps> (spring forward), the local time does not exist - clocks
skipped over it. For B<overlaps> (fall back), the local time occurs
twice - once before the transition and once after.

=over 4

=item C<earlier>

Use the pre-transition offset. For gaps, this interprets the time as
if the clock had not yet sprung forward. For overlaps, this selects
the first occurrence (the earlier UTC instant).

=item C<later>

Use the post-transition offset. For gaps, this interprets the time as
if the clock had already sprung forward. For overlaps, this selects
the second occurrence (the later UTC instant).

=item C<std>

Use whichever offset corresponds to standard time (C<is_dst = 0>),
regardless of which side of the transition it falls on.

=item C<dst>

Use whichever offset corresponds to daylight saving time
(C<is_dst = 1>), regardless of which side of the transition it
falls on.

=item C<reject>

Reject the time outright by throwing an exception.

=back

=head1 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER MODULES

If you are migrating from or interoperating with other Perl timezone
modules, the following constructor settings reproduce their local time
resolution behaviour.

=head2 L<DateTime::TimeZone>

C<DateTime::TimeZone-E<gt>offset_for_local_datetime()> throws an exception
on gaps and selects the later (post-transition) offset for overlaps:

    my $tz = Time::TZif->new(
      path           => $path,
      gap_policy     => 'reject',
      overlap_policy => 'later',
    );

=head2 L<Time::Local>

C<Time::Local::timelocal()> folds gap times back into the pre-transition
period and likewise resolves overlaps to the earlier (pre-transition)
offset:

    my $tz = Time::TZif->new(
      path           => $path,
      gap_policy     => 'earlier',
      overlap_policy => 'earlier',
    );

=head2 L<POSIX>

The behaviour of C<POSIX::mktime()> with C<tm_isdst = -1> for
non-existing (gap) and ambiguous (overlap) local times is unspecified
by the C standard and varies across platforms.

=head3 glibc (Linux)

glibc resolves gaps to the pre-transition (earlier) offset and overlaps
to the first occurrence (earlier), equivalent to:

    my $tz = Time::TZif->new(
      path           => $path,
      gap_policy     => 'earlier',
      overlap_policy => 'earlier',
    );

This produces zero mismatches against C<POSIX::mktime()> for all tested
zones.

=head3 BSD libc (macOS)

BSD libc does not match any single policy combination consistently.
No combination of gap and overlap policy produces zero mismatches
across all transition points. The closest results use C<gap_policy>
C<earlier> with C<overlap_policy> C<earlier>, but still produce 
mismatches at some transitions.

See F<author/check_mktime.pl> in the source repository for the
brute-force comparison used to determine these results.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

All error messages are thrown as exceptions via C<Carp::croak>.

=head2 Unable to parse TZif

=over 4

=item C<Unable to parse TZif: could not open '%s': '%s'>

The specified file could not be opened for reading.

=item C<Unable to parse TZif: could not read from filehandle: '%s'>

An I/O error occurred while reading the TZif file.

=item C<Unable to parse TZif: premature end of data (got: %d, expected: %d)>

The file ended before the expected number of bytes could be read,
indicating a truncated or corrupt TZif file.

=item C<Unable to parse TZif: not a TZif file>

The file does not begin with the TZif magic number (C<0x545A6966>).

=item C<Unable to parse TZif: invalid v2/v3 header>

The v2/v3 data block does not begin with a valid TZif header.

=item C<Unable to parse TZif: expected newline before POSIX TZ string>

The v2/v3 data block is not followed by the expected newline delimiter
before the POSIX TZ string footer.

=item C<Unable to parse TZif: must have at least one type>

The TZif file declares zero type records, which is invalid per RFC 8536.

=item C<Unable to parse TZif: too many transitions times: %d (max: %d)>

The TZif file declares more transitions than the compiled limit of 2400.
This guard prevents excessive memory allocation from malformed files.

=item C<Unable to parse TZif: too many type records: %d (max: %d)>

The TZif file declares more type records than the compiled limit of 256.

=item C<Unable to parse TZif: too many abbreviation characters: %d (max: %d)>

The TZif file declares more abbreviation characters than the compiled
limit of 256.

=item C<Unable to parse TZif: invalid type index: %d (max: %d)>

A transition references a type index that is out of range.

=item C<Unable to parse TZif: invalid UTC offset: %d>

A type record contains a UTC offset outside the valid range
(C<-86400 E<lt> offset E<lt> 86400>).

=item C<Unable to parse TZif: invalid DST flag: %d>

A type record contains a DST flag that is not 0 or 1.

=item C<Unable to parse TZif: invalid abbreviation index: %d>

A type record references an abbreviation index that is out of range.

=back

=head2 Unable to resolve local time

=over 4

=item C<Unable to resolve local time: non-existing time (gap)>

The given local time falls within a gap created by a spring-forward
transition and the C<gap_policy> policy is set to C<'reject'>.

=item C<Unable to resolve local time: ambiguous time (overlap)>

The given local time falls within an overlap created by a fall-back
transition and the C<overlap_policy> policy is set to C<'reject'>.

=back

=head2 Usage errors

=over 4

=item C<Usage: %s>

A method was called with an incorrect number of arguments.

=item C<Parameter 'path' is required>

The C<new> constructor was called without the required C<path>
parameter.

=item C<Invalid value for the parameter 'name'>

The value given for C<name> is not structurally valid as an IANA Time 
Zone Database timezone name.

=item C<Invalid policy value for the parameter '%s'>

The value given for C<policy_gap> or C<policy_overlap> is not one of
the recognised policies (C<earlier>, C<later>, C<std>, C<dst>,
C<reject>). See L</POLICIES>.

=item C<Unrecognised named parameter: '%s'>

An unrecognised named parameter was given.

=back

=head1 TZIF FORMAT

TZif is the binary format used by the IANA Time Zone Database (often
called the Olson database). These files are typically found in
C</usr/share/zoneinfo/> on Unix-like systems.

This module supports:

=over 4

=item * TZif version 1 (32-bit transition timestamps, epoch range limited to 1901-2038)

=item * TZif version 2 and 3 (64-bit transition timestamps)

=back

Version 2/3 files contain both a v1 data block (for backward
compatibility) and a v2/v3 data block with 64-bit timestamps. This module
uses the v2/v3 data block when available and when the platform supports
64-bit integers.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<RFC 8536|https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8536> - The Time
Zone Information Format (TZif)

L<IANA Time Zone Database|https://www.iana.org/time-zones>

=head1 AUTHOR

Christian Hansen

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2026 by Christian Hansen

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
