# PODNAME: Neo4j::Types
# ABSTRACT: Common Neo4j type system

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Neo4j::Types - Common Neo4j type system

=head1 VERSION

version 2.00

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Packages in this distribution represent Cypher types for use
with the Neo4j graph database system.
As a user of a Neo4j driver distribution supporting these types,
you can find details on the available methods for each type and
their behaviour in the documentation of the individual modules.

=over

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::B<Node>>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::B<Relationship>>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::B<Path>>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::ByteArray>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::DateTime>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Duration>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Point>

=back

The module L<Neo4j::Types> itself contains no code, but you can
C<use> it as a shortcut to load all the modules listed above.

Additionally, generic implementations are offered for those
types which Neo4j allows to be used as a query parameter.
See L<Neo4j::Types::Generic> for details.

Given a Perl scalar, you can determine whether it represents
a specific type of Neo4j value by using the C<isa> operator.

 use v5.36;
 $is_node = $value isa Neo4j::Types::Node;
 
 # Older versions of Perl:
 use Scalar::Util 'blessed';
 $is_node = blessed $value && $value->isa( 'Neo4j::Types::Node' );

Version 2 of Neo4j::Types is targeting Perl v5.16 and newer.
Patches will be accepted to address issues with Perl versions
as old as v5.10.1 as long as practical.

=head1 IMPLEMENTOR GUIDANCE

The Neo4j Cypher Manual describes a variety of types.
For a discussion of typical ways to implement these in Perl,
see L<Neo4j::Types::ImplementorNotes>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item * L<Neo4j::Bolt>

=item * L<Neo4j::Driver>

=item * "Values and types" in the L<Neo4j Cypher Manual|https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Arne Johannessen <ajnn@cpan.org>

If you contact me by email, please make sure you include the word
"Perl" in your subject header to help beat the spam filters.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2021-2023 by Arne Johannessen.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Artistic License 2.0 or (at your option) the same terms
as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
