=head1 Catalyst-Plugin-Compress-WithExclusions


It is always a good idea to compress the results that are returned from
your web application, if the client can handle it. L<Catalyst::Plugin::Compress>
does that for you with very little effort. However, there are times when you might
not want the response to be compressed. For example when a returning a file that has
already been zipped. The extra compression is unlikely to reduce the file size and
will just add extra load to the server. This module builds upon the
L<Catalyst::Plugin::Compress> module and adds the option to skip the compression step
for certain url paths. So, for example, if you don't want to compress any files in the
download path, then you would add the following to your config:

    __PACKAGE__->config(
      compression_excluded => ['^download', ],
    );

Now all urls on the site that start with download will be uncompressed and everything
else will be compressed as requested.

=cut

=head1 INSTALLATION


To install this module, run the following commands:

	perl Build.PL
	./Build
	./Build test
	./Build install

=cut

=head1 SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION


After installing, you can find documentation for this module with the
perldoc command.

    perldoc Catalyst::Plugin::Compress::WithExclusions

You can also look for information at:

    RT, CPAN's request tracker (report bugs here)
        http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Catalyst-Plugin-Compress-WithExclusions

    AnnoCPAN, Annotated CPAN documentation
        http://annocpan.org/dist/Catalyst-Plugin-Compress-WithExclusions

    CPAN Ratings
        http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Catalyst-Plugin-Compress-WithExclusions

    Search CPAN
        http://search.cpan.org/dist/Catalyst-Plugin-Compress-WithExclusions/


=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT


Copyright (C) 2012 Jody Clements

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.

=cut
