h1. WebService::MtGox - a Perl interface to MtGox's BitCoin trading API

h2. What is BitCoin?

Bitcoin is a peer-to-peer currency. Peer-to-peer means that no central
authority issues new money or tracks transactions. These tasks are managed
collectively by the network.  I have a feeling that this might be a real
game changer, and it will be very interesting to see how governments and
banks react to this new liberatory technology.

h2. What is MtGox?

"MtGox":https://mtgox.com/ is currently (as of June 2011) the most heavily
traded BitCoin market.  They have been kind enough to provide an API that
lets you automate your trading.

h2. Some Sample Code

This is a fairly straight-forward expression of "MtGox's Trading API":https://mtgox.com/support/tradeAPI .

  use common::sense;
  use WebService::MtGox;

  my $m = WebService::MtGox->new(user => 'me', password => 's3cr3t');
  my $depth = $m->depth;
  my $buy   = $m->buy(amount => 10, price => 30.9999);
  my $sell  = $m->sell(amount => 10, price => 34.54321);

h2. The Command Line Client

This module comes with a command line client called *mg* that lets you
get market data and initiate trades.  If you're a command line junky,
you'll find it quite convenient.

  Usage:
        mg <COMMAND> [OPTION]...

  Options:
      ticker
        Get ticker.

      depth
        Get trading depth.

      trades
        Get recent trades.

      balance
        Get your balance.

      buy
        Buy some bitcoins.

        --amount=NUMBER
        --price=NUMBER

      sell
        Sell some bitcoins.

        --amount=NUMBER
        --price=NUMBER

      ls
      list
        List your orders.

      cancel
        Cancel an order.

        --oid=ID
            The order id.

        --type=NUMBER
            The type may be 1 for buy or 2 for sell.

      send
        Send bitcoins from your MtGox account to a bitcoin address.

        --amount=NUMBER
        --address=BITCOIN_ADDRESS

      usd [BITCOINS]
        Display the total value of your balance in US Dollars. You can also
        use this to find the value of an arbitrary amount of bitcoins in US
        Dollars.

          # How much is 1000 btc worth in US Dollars?
          mg usd 1000

      btc [USD]
        Display the total value of your balance in bitcoins. You can also use
        this to find the value of an arbitrary amount of US Dollars in
        bitcoins.

          # How much is $400 worth in bitcoins?
          mg btc 400

