

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Lingua::JA::Name::Splitter - split a Japanese name into given and family

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    
    use utf8;
    use Lingua::JA::Name::Splitter 'split_kanji_name';
    my ($family, $given) = split_kanji_name ('風太郎');
    print ("$family $given\n");
    


produces output

    風 太郎


(This example is included as L<F<synopsis.pl>|https://fastapi.metacpan.org/source/BKB/Lingua-JA-Name-Splitter-0.09/examples/synopsis.pl> in the distribution.)


=head1 VERSION

This documents Lingua::JA::Name::Splitter version 0.09
corresponding to git commit L<6d4f8e9a4a14238d2f8f6df16b51bce9e952804d|https://github.com/benkasminbullock/Lingua-JA-Name-Splitter/commit/6d4f8e9a4a14238d2f8f6df16b51bce9e952804d> released on Sat Jul 29 12:54:55 2017 +0900.

This module is based on the L</Enamdict> data released on 2017-01-28.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module attempts to split the names of Japanese people into given
and family names. 

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 split_kanji_name

    my ($family, $given) = split_kanji_name ('渡辺純子');

Native Japanese writing does not use spaces, so names appear as a
string of characters with no break. This function provides a
"guesswork" solution for dealing with names. It is a rough guess based
on a simple algorithm, and thus is suitable for those who need to deal
with large numbers of names quickly. Its output is not reliable, and
must be checked by a human.

The heuristic methods used are as follows. The first character is
assumed to be the family name's, and the last character is assumed to
be the given name's. When there are more than two characters in the
name, hiragana are assumed part of the given name. Kanji characters
are weighted by distance from the beginning of the name. A dictionary
of probabilities of family or given name kanji is also used to weight
some characters. The name is then split at the first character which
seems more likely to be part of the given name.

=head2 split_romaji_name

    my ($first, $last) = split_romaji_name ($name);

Given a string containing a name of a Japanese person in romanized
form, guess which part is the first and which part is the last name
using the spaces, capitalization and commas in the name.

Japanese people write their names in a variety of romanized formats,
such as I<"KATSU, Shintaro">, I<"Shintaro Katsu">, I<"KATSU
Shintaro">, or even I<"ShintaroKATSU">. This function is intended as a
"rock breaker" for processing a large number of Japanese names in
romanized form. Its output needs to be checked by a human.

    
    use Lingua::JA::Name::Splitter 'split_romaji_name';
    for my $name ('KATSU, Shintaro', 'Risa Yoshiki') {
        my ($first, $last) = split_romaji_name ($name);
        print "$first $last\n";
    }
    


produces output

    Shintaro Katsu
    Risa Yoshiki


(This example is included as L<F<katsu-yoshiki.pl>|https://fastapi.metacpan.org/source/BKB/Lingua-JA-Name-Splitter-0.09/examples/katsu-yoshiki.pl> in the distribution.)


=head1 DEPENDENCIES

=over

=item Carp

L<Carp> is used to report errors.

=item Lingua::JA::Moji

L<Lingua::JA::Moji> is used to process Japanese characters and detect
romanised Japanese.

=back

=head1 EXPORTS

Nothing is exported by default. L</split_kanji_name> and
L</split_romaji_name> are exported on demand. An export tag C<:all>
exports both functions.

    use Lingua::JA::Name::Splitter ':all';

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head2 About Japanese names

For people who've stumbled upon this module by accident and wonder why
anyone would need a Japanese name splitter, see the L<Sci.lang.japan
FAQ on Japanese
names|http://www.sljfaq.org/afaq/names-for-people.html> or the
L<Wikipedia page on Japanese
names|http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japanese_name>.

=head2 Enamdict

The Enamdict dictionary of name data used by the module is a project
of the Electronic Dictionary Research and Development Group (EDRDG).
Please see L<ENAMDICT/JMnedict Japanese Proper Names Dictionary
Files|http://www.edrdg.org/enamdict/enamdict_doc.html> for full
details.

=head2 Build scripts

The following build scripts are used by the module.



The script which makes the dictionary, L<F<enamdict-counter.pl>|https://github.com/benkasminbullock/Lingua-JA-Name-Splitter/blob/6d4f8e9a4a14238d2f8f6df16b51bce9e952804d/enamdict-counter.pl>, is in the module's repository, but it is not provided in the
distribution itself. The script L<F<failures.pl>|https://github.com/benkasminbullock/Lingua-JA-Name-Splitter/blob/6d4f8e9a4a14238d2f8f6df16b51bce9e952804d/failures.pl> counts the
number of failed matches with Enamdict. The script L<F<test-splitter.pl>|https://github.com/benkasminbullock/Lingua-JA-Name-Splitter/blob/6d4f8e9a4a14238d2f8f6df16b51bce9e952804d/test-splitter.pl> is used to compute a probability factor used
in the module. The module L<F<Enamdict.pm>|https://github.com/benkasminbullock/Lingua-JA-Name-Splitter/blob/6d4f8e9a4a14238d2f8f6df16b51bce9e952804d/Enamdict.pm> handles reading and
parsing Enamdict.


=head1 AUTHOR

Ben Bullock, <bkb@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENCE

This package and associated files are copyright (C) 
2012-2017
Ben Bullock.

You can use, copy, modify and redistribute this package and associated
files under the Perl Artistic Licence or the GNU General Public
Licence.



