=head1 NAME

Math::Business::StockMonkey::FAQ - These are indeed frequent questions

=head1 Your ModuleX is wrong, just look at SiteName!

No it isn't.  Well, probably not.  Most of these technical analysis
concepts are more ritual than science.  There are many different ways to
calculate them and each site chooses a way that works best for their own
database needs.

Compare the Parabolic SAR between two sites (Yahoo!, Bigcharts,
Stockcharts, Ameritrade, ...) and you're going to see surprisingly
different results.  Nobody is wrong.  There's just more than one way to do
it.

The example, P-SAR, is particularly sensitive to starting data.  Depending
on where you start, the SAR can look wildly different.  That's part of it's
charm I suppose.

But this phenomenon is not unique to the SAR.  You will find that many of
these formula are subject to interpretation.  I am most interested in the
formula as presented by the original Economist.   So you'll see Wells
Wilder's RSI being calculated.  Although, Cutler had a variation, so that was
also added...

=head1 I like the Blather variation of PackgeX, it's better ...

Great.  If you can cite an economist who described it, I'm perfectly  willing to
add that variation as a stetting for the main package.  I'm less interested in
informal tweaks, but if it'd be a simple option (like a coefficient or
something), it's a doable thing.

=head1 I'm trying to build an automatic trading system.  Are you interested in something like that?

Not really.  I just want the bare bones functions to be on CPAN.  That is my
only goal.  Personally, I use them only for things I<not> relating to the stock
market.

If you are interested in something that automates trading and evaluation of
stocks, check out Genius Trader:

L<http://www.geniustrader.org/>

=head1 How can I help?

Links and resources.  Really, these modules aren't hard to write... the main
problem is figuring out where they came from and how they're meant to be
calculated academically.

Sometimes you have to sift through quite a few approximations intended for
spreadsheet calculations rather than formally correct computations -- that is,
if anything can be formally "correct" in technical analysis.

Also, post resources, ideas, and comments to the official mailing list:

L<http://groups.google.com/group/stockmonkey/>

=head1 What is Stock Monkey?

Every time I work on technical analysis I end up bumping into more and more tech
fans.  In one iteration, I bumped into a group of guys that were trying to use
genetic computer learning techniques to trade stocks.  The project was called
stockmonkey (http://stockmonkey.net/) and was hosted on the webservers where I
work.  As far as I know it's completely abandoned.  The domain name got bought
up by someone else....

But I resurrected the name.  They used the ::MACD package in their project.
That's really the only relevance.
