=head1 NAME

SPOPS::Manual::Configuration - Description of variables used in the SPOPS configuration process

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This document aims to answer the questions:

=over 4

=item *

How do I setup logging?

=item *

What configuration options are available for SPOPS objects?

=item *

How do I modify configuration options?

=item *

How can I get to the configuration items once the object class is
operational?

=item *

How can I add new configuration items?

=back

=head1 LOGGING

=head2 Using Log4perl

As of version 0.81 SPOPS now uses L<Log::Log4perl> to issue logging
messages. This is a far, far better system than the fragile and just
plain busted system used previously.

The log4perl documentation is excellent and if you're really
interested I strongly recommend you read it. However...

=head2 Quick Guide

SPOPS comes with a sample configuration file for log4perl. It's found
in the root of the source distribution and looks like this:

 ########################################
 # ROOT CATEGORY
 
 # Log to a file 'spops.log' (controlled below)
 #log4perl.logger = DEBUG, FileAppender
 
 # Log to STDERR -- this is the default to replicate earlier behavior
 log4perl.logger = DEBUG, ScreenAppender
 
 ########################################
 # CATEGORIES
 
 log4perl.logger.SPOPS              = INFO
 log4perl.logger.SPOPS.DBI          = INFO
 log4perl.logger.SPOPS.SQLInterface = WARN
 log4perl.logger.SPOPS.ClassFactory = WARN
 
 ########################################
 # APPENDERS
 
 # Normal file log - to use this just specify 'FileAppender' as the root category
 
 log4perl.appender.FileAppender          = Log::Log4perl::Appender::File
 log4perl.appender.FileAppender.filename = spops.log
 log4perl.appender.FileAppender.layout   = Log::Log4perl::Layout::PatternLayout
 log4perl.appender.FileAppender.layout.ConversionPattern = %d{HH:mm:ss} %p %c %C (%L) %m %n
 
 # Normal STDERR log
 
 log4perl.appender.ScreenAppender          = Log::Log4perl::Appender::Screen
 log4perl.appender.ScreenAppender.stderr   = 1
 log4perl.appender.ScreenAppender.layout   = Log::Log4perl::Layout::PatternLayout
 log4perl.appender.ScreenAppender.layout.ConversionPattern = %d{HH:mm:ss} %p %c %C (%L) %m %n
 

To initialize log4perl just add the following to your script, or put
it in a common place and call it at your script startup:

 use Log::Log4perl;
 
 # 'log4perl.conf' is the name of your configuration file
 
 Log::Log4perl::init( 'log4perl.conf' );


Easy! The default configuration file issues statements to STDERR, just
like the old debugging statements from SPOPS. But you can also issue
them to a file, log them to a database, send them to C<syslog> or
whatever you like. You can even log the messages from important
modules (e.g., 'SPOPS::DBI' and 'SPOPS::SQLInterface') to separate
files to make it easier to separate the wheat from the chaff.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These are variables used in all SPOPS implementations. The name of the
variable is the key used in the configuration hashref.

Here is a fairly minimal example of a configuration hashref:

  1: my $spops = {
  2:   'news' => {
  3:      class           => 'My::News',
  4:      isa             => [ qw/ MyApp::Datasource SPOPS::DBI::Pg SPOPS::DBI / ],
  5:      rules_from      => [ 'My::DiscoverField' ],
  6:      code_class      => [],
  7:      field_discover  => 'yes',
  8:      base_table      => 'news',
  9:      id_field        => 'news_id',
 10:      increment_field => 1,
 11:      no_insert       => [ 'news_id' ],
 12:      no_update       => [ 'news_id' ],
 13:   },
 14: };

=head2 General Configuration Fields

B<class> ($)

The name of the class SPOPS will build.

B<code_class> (\@) (optional)

An arrayref of class names that will be read in as additional
behaviors to the SPOPS-generated class.

B<field> (\@) (optional if setting dynamically)

An arrayref of fieldnames used in this object; the case of these may
be modified to be all lowercase.

B<field_raw> (\@) (optional)

An arrayref of fieldnames used in this object in their original cases.

B<strict_field> (bool) (optional)

A flag indicating whether to use strict field checking.

B<isa> (\@)

An arrayref of classes representing the ISA parent hierarchy of the
generated class. These classes are examined for class factory
behaviors and object rules during the code generating process, and
they're also used in the normal ISA fashion as class ancestors.

B<rules_from> (\@) (optional)

An arrayref of classes to read class factory behaviors and object
rules from. These classes are not used as ancestors of the class, and
once the code generation process is done the generated class has
nothing to do with them.

B<id_field> ($ or \@)

The name of the field used as the ID (or primary key) field for the
object. Currently, multi-field primary keys are supported but only in
L<SPOPS::DBI|SPOPS::DBI>. (See
L<SPOPS::Manual::Object|SPOPS::Manual::Object> for more information
about multi-field primary keys.) Multi-field primary keys use an
arrayref rather than a string, and the order of the fields must be the
same at all times.

B<column_group> (\%) (optional)

Used by the lazy loading process to determine the group-to-fieldname
mappings. See L<SPOPS::Manual::Object|SPOPS::Manual::Object> for more
information on lazy loading.

B<field_map> (\%) (optional)

A hashref of field-to-field relationships so you can make an object
appear as another one. For instance, if you have a legacy datastore
with short, unreadable fieldnames you can make it appear as a modern,
intelligible object. See
L<SPOPS::Manual::Object|SPOPS::Manual::Object> for more information on
field mapping.

B<default_values> (\%) (optional)

Hashref of field names and default values for the fields when the
object is initialized with C<new()>.

Normally the values of the hashref are the defaults to which you want
to set the fields. However, there are two special cases of values:

B<'NOW'> This string will insert the current timestamp in the format
C<yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss>.

B<\%> A hashref with the keys 'class' and 'method' will get executed
as a class method and be passed the name of the field for which we
want a default. The method should return the default value for this
field.

One problem with setting default values in your object configuration
B<and> in your database is that the two may become unsynchronized,
resulting in many pulled hairs when debugging.

To get around the synchronization issue, you can set this dynamically
using various methods with
L<SPOPS::ClassFactory|SPOPS::ClassFactory>. (A sample,
C<My::DBI::FindDefaults>, is shipped with SPOPS.)

B<multivalue> (\@) (optional)

List all fieldnames that can hold multiple values. Currently the only
native support for this is in L<SPOPS::LDAP|SPOPS::LDAP>, but you can
also use it along with some object rules to fake relationships.

B<no_insert> (\@) (optional)

List of fields not to use when creating a new object in the datastore.

B<no_update> (\@) (optional)

List of fields not to update when saving a previously saved object.

B<skip_undef> (\@) (optional)

You can elect not to include a field that's undefined when saving or
updating an object by including it in this list.

B<creation_security> (\%) (required if you're using security)

If you're using security, specify here what security the object will
have when it's first created.

B<no_security> (bool) (optional)

If true, the object won't use security even if
L<SPOPS::Secure|SPOPS::Secure> is in the C<isa>.

B<no_cache> (bool) (optional)

If true, the object won't be cached even if the application specifies
that it should. (Currently unused.)

B<object_name> ($)

The general name of a type of object. For an object representing a
news story this might be 'News'.

B<name> ($)

How an object is uniquely identified to humans. This is often used
when displaying an object of unknown origin -- we can ask about its
information using the C<object_description()> method that all SPOPS
objects have. For an object representing a news story this might be
'title'.

The scalar can specify either a property (e.g., a field name 'title'
for a news story) or a method on the object (e.g., a method
'full_name' which puts together a person's name smartly). If the
specified method isn't found the title in C<object_description()> is
left undefined.

B<NOTE>: Since we allow you to specify a method name the coderef
option (previously found in these docs) is no longer necessary. As a
result it is being phased out and will probably be eliminated before
we reach 1.0. (Whenever that is...)

B<display> (\%)

A URL specifying how to display an instance of an object. The
C<object_description()> method uses a base URL then appends relevant
query information to it.

B<as_string_order> (\@) (optional)

Ordered list of object fields to use when the C<as_string()> method is
called. If you don't specify this SPOPS will use the object fields as
listed in the C<field> configuration key.

B<as_string_label> (\%) (optional)

Hashref of object field-to-label mappings used when the C<as_string()>
method is called.

B<has_a> (\%) (optional)

Metadata for SPOPS to use when building a relationship from one object
to another. This generally means that the object itself has the
information in its own properties necessary to fetch one or more
objects.

Here is a list of possible formats and what results from them:

  1: # Given:
  2: 'contained' => {
  3:    class => 'My::ContainedClass',
  4:    id    => 'contained_id',
  5: }
  6: 
  7: # Basic usage
  8:    has_a => { class-name => 'id-field' },
  9:    has_a => { My::ContainedClass => 'contained_id' }
 10:    -- Creates method 'contained'
 11: 
 12: # Other ID field name
 13:    has_a => { class-name => 'id-field' },
 14:    has_a => { My::ContainedClass => 'original' }
 15:    -- Creates method 'original_contained'
 16: 
 17: # Multiple ID fields
 18:    has_a => { class-name => [ 'id-field', 'id-field' ] },
 19:    has_a => { My::ContainedClass => [ 'contained_id, 'original' ] }
 20:    -- Creates methods 'contained' and 'original_contained'
 21: 
 22: # Specific method to create and a default 
 23:    has_a => { class-name => { method-name => 'id-field' }, 'id-field' },
 24:    has_a => { My::ContainedClass =>
 25:                     { 'originally_contained_by' => 'original' },
 26:                     'contained_id' },
 27:    -- Creates methods 'originally_contained_by' and 'contained'
 28: 
 29: # Specific method to create and multiple other ID fields
 30:    has_a => { class-name => { method-name => 'id_field'},
 31:                             [ 'id-field', 'id-field' ]    },
 32:    has_a => { My::ContainedClass =>
 33:                     { 'originally_contained_by' => 'original' },
 34:                     [ 'contained_id', 'future' ] }
 35:    -- Creates methods 'originally_contained_by', 'contained' and
 36:       'future_contained'

See L<SPOPS::Manual::Relationships|SPOPS::Manual::Relationships> for
more information on how this works.

B<fetch_by> (\@) (optional)

A list of fields that tell SPOPS you want to create special methods
for retrieving objects based on a the value of particular field. For
instance, with user objects we might want to specify 'email' and
'login_name' so SPOPS will create the methods 'fetch_by_email' and
'fetch_by_login_name'.

# TODO: Add more here.

=head1 SPOPS::DBI CONFIGURATION

This section describes configuration keys that are used differently by
L<SPOPS::DBI|SPOPS::DBI> than the default, as well as new
configuration keys used only by L<SPOPS::DBI|SPOPS::DBI>.

=head2 General Configuration Fields

B<isa> (\@)

Same as a normal SPOPS field, but it must have
L<SPOPS::DBI|SPOPS::DBI> in it.

B<base_table> ($) 

Table name for data to be stored. This may be modified during the
configuration process to be a fully qualified name (e.g.,
'user.table') where necessary. The value is always available via the
C<table_name()> class method.

B<sql_defaults> (\@) (optional)

List of fields that have defaults defined in the SQL table. For
instance:

   active   CHAR(3) DEFAULT 'yes',

After L<SPOPS::DBI|SPOPS::DBI> fetches a record, it then checks to see
if there are any defaults for the record and if so it refetches the
object to ensure that the data in the object and the data in the
database are synced.

B<field_alter> (\%) (optional)

Allows you to define different formatting behaviors for retrieving
fields. For instance, if you want dates formatted in a certain manner
by the database rather than after the fact, you can do something like:

 field_alter => {
    posted_on => q/DATE_FORMAT( posted_on, '%M %e, %Y (%h:%i %p)' )/,
 }

Which instead of the default time format:

 2000-09-26 10:29:00

will if you're using MySQL return something like:

 September 26, 2000 (10:29 AM)

These are typically database-specific.

B<insert_alter> (\%) (optional)

Allows you to define different formatting behaviors for the values of
inserted fields. The field is the key, the value is a
L<sprintf|sprintf> format that should contain one C<%s> sequence into
which the actual value of the object will be plugged.

For instance, your database may use a non-standard format for
inserting dates. You can specify:

 insert_alter => {
    last_login => "to_date('%s','YYYY-MM-DD HH24:MI:SS')"
 }

So when the object value is set:

 $object->{last_login} = '2002-04-22 14:47:32';

What actually gets put into the database is:

 INSERT INTO table
 ( ... last_login ... )
 VALUES 
 ( ... to_date( '2002-04-22 14:47:32', 'YYYY-MM-DD HH24:MI:SS' ) ... )

Note that the resulting value is passed unquoted to the database. Also
note that the configured field name must be in lower-case, even if the
field in the database is in mixed- or upper-case.

You can override a L<SPOPS::DBI|SPOPS::DBI> method If you need more
complicated processing than this allows, see the docs for details.

=head2 General Relationship Fields

B<links_to> (\%) (optional)

The 'links_to' field allows you to specify a SPOPS class and specify
which table is used to link two objects. Note that this relationship
assumes a link table that joins two separate tables. When you sever a
link between two objects, you are only deleting the link rather than
deleting an object.

Here is a list of possible formats and what results from them:

  1: # Given:
  2: 'contained' => {
  3:    class => 'My::ContainedClass',
  4:    id    => 'contained_id',
  5: }
  6: 
  7: # Basic usage
  8:    links_to => { class-name => 'linking-table-name' }
  9:    links_to => { My::ContainedClass => 'contained_link' }
 10:    -- Creates method 'contained', 'contained_add' and 'contained_remove'

See L<SPOPS::Manual::Relationships|SPOPS::Manual::Relationships> for
more information on how this works.

=head1 SPOPS::LDAP CONFIGURATION

Configuration of an L<SPOPS::LDAP|SPOPS::LDAP> data object is similar
to that of other SPOPS objects, with a few modifications.

=head2 General Configuration Fields

B<isa> (\@)

Same as a normal SPOPS field, but it must have
L<SPOPS::LDAP|SPOPS::LDAP> in it.

B<base_dn> ($)

DN in an LDAP tree where this object is located. For instance, the
common 'inetOrgPerson' type of object might be located under:

  base_dn  => 'ou=People,dc=MyCompany,dc=com'

While 'printer' objects might be located under:

  base_dn  => 'ou=Equipment,dc=MyCompany,dc=com'

Note that L<SPOPS::LDAP::MultiDatasource|SPOPS::LDAP::MultiDatasource>
allows you to specify a partial DN on a per-datasource basis.

B<ldap_object_class> (\@)

When you create a new object you can specify the LDAP object class
yourself when creating the object or L<SPOPS::LDAP|SPOPS::LDAP> can do
it for you behind the scenes. If you specify one or more LDAP object
class strings here they will be used whenever you create a new object
and save it.

Example:

 ldap_object_class => [ 'top', 'person', 'inetOrgPerson',
                        'organizationalPerson' ]

B<ldap_fetch_object_class> ($) (optional)

Specify an objectclass here to ensure your results are restricted
properly. This is also used to do an 'empty' search and find all
records of a particular class.

NOTE: This is B<only> used with the C<fetch_group()> and
C<fetch_iterator()> methods.

Example:

 ldap_fetch_object_class => 'person'

B<ldap_update_only_changed> (bool) (optional)

Set a true value here to update only those fields whose values have
changed.

B<multivalue> (\@) (optional)

You B<must> list the fields here that may have multiple values in the
directory. Otherwise the object will have only one of the values and,
on saving the object, will probably wipe out all the others.

Example:

 multivalue  => [ 'objectclass', 'cn' ]

B<id_value_field> ($) (optional)

Returns the field used for the ID value (a string) in this object. By
default this is the value stored in 'id_field', but there are cases
where you may wish to use a particular fieldname for the DN of an
object and the value from another field.

=head2 Relationship Fields

The 'has_a' relationship exists where one object has the information
for one or more objects of another type in its own properties. The
DN(s) for the other object(s) are held in one of the object
properties.

For instance, one of the objects represented in the standard LDAP
schema is a group. This has the object class 'groupOfUniqueNames' and
a property 'uniquemember' which may have zero, one or more DNs for
member objects.

The 'links_to' relationship exists where one object is related to one
or more objects of another type, but the information is held in the
property of the other object. So a member of one or more groups would
use a 'links_to' relationship to find all the groups to which the
member belongs.

As an example of both of these, take the canonical relationship of
users to groups. The group object 'has_a' zero or more user objects
since it is a 'groupOfUniqueNames' and has the property
'uniquemember'. So we would define it:

 group => {
    class    => 'My::Group',
    isa      => [ 'SPOPS::LDAP' ],
    has_a    => { 'My::User' => 'uniquemember' },
 },

So a group that had the following DNs in its 'uniquemember' field:

  cn=Fred Flintstone,ou=People,dc=hanna-barberra,dc=com
  cn=Wilma Flintstone,ou=People,dc=hanna-barberra,dc=com
  cn=Dino,ou=People,dc=hanna-barberra,dc=com

would return user objects for Fred, Wilma and Dino.

The user object might be defined:

 user => {
    class    => 'My::User',
    isa      => [ 'SPOPS::LDAP' ],
    links_to => { 'My::Group' => 'uniquemember' },
 },

And would find all groups that had its DN in the field 'uniquemember'
of the group objects.

This is generally more straightforward than the DBI equivalent.

=head1 SPOPS::LDAP::MultiDatasource Configuration

Also see the L<SPOPS::LDAP|SPOPS::LDAP> configuration information
unless otherwise noted.

=head2 General Configuration Fields

B<datasource> (\@)

If you want to use multiple datasources, you need to specify them. The
C<datasource> key holds an arrayref of datasources B<in the order you
want them searched>.

Example:

 my $spops = {
   class      => 'My::Person',
   isa        => [ 'SPOPS::LDAP::MultiDatasource' ],
   datasource => [ 'main', 'accounting', 'development', 'etc' ],
 };

The 'etc' datasource will be the last one searched. This would
obviously be a performance hit if most of your objects were there.

B<ldap_base_dn> ($ or \%)

First, this should B<not> be a full DN, but rather a partial one that
when matched up with a datasource creates a full DN. For example:

 my $spops = {
   class        => 'My::Person',
   isa          => [ 'SPOPS::LDAP::MultiDatasource' ],
   ldap_base_dn => 'ou=People',
 };

Second, if you use a scalar for this key you are in effect saying 'use
the same partial DN for all my datasources'. But if you are using
different partial DNs for different datasources, you need to specify
them:

 my $spops = {
   class        => 'My::Person',
   isa          => [ 'SPOPS::LDAP::MultiDatasource' ],
   datasource   => [ 'main', 'accounting', 'development', 'etc' ],
   ldap_base_dn => { main        => 'ou=People',
                     accounting  => 'ou=BeanCounters',
                     development => 'ou=Geeks',
                     etc         => 'ou=Commoners' },
 };

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2001-2004 Chris Winters. All rights reserved.

See L<SPOPS::Manual|SPOPS::Manual> for license.

=head1 AUTHORS

Chris Winters E<lt>chris@cwinters.comE<gt>
