package DataFlow::QuickStart;

# ABSTRACT: DataFlow Quick Start Guide

# VERSION

1;



=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

DataFlow::QuickStart - DataFlow Quick Start Guide

=head1 VERSION

version 1.121830

A guide for quick jumping into the DataFlow bandwagon, programming-wise. That
means that, despite our long term goals of making a framework that can be used
by non-programmers, we are still living within the sphere of those who can
code. Code Perl, as of now.

For the purpose of this guide, we are going to distinguish among three
different types of uses, for people who want to:

=over 4

=item *

Use DataFlow to achieve something in a different project

=item *

Improve DataFlow by adding/improving processors that allow for more sophisticated data manipulation

=item *

Improve DataFlow by adding/improving features in the core components

=back

DataFlow is built upon L<Moose> and it follows the rules of that system.

If you are really serious about submitting code to DataFlow, please read the
section called "Joining the DataFlow effort" below.

=head1 Using DataFlow

This is covered in the POD documentation elsewhere, so here we present
just a summary.

=head2 Proc

A L<DataFlow::Proc> is the basic processing unit of DataFlow. It runs the
closure pointed to by the C<p> parameter with C<$_> localized to the data
that has to be processed.

One can create a simple Proc (short for Processor) that converts a string to
uppercase like this:

    $proc = DataFlow::Proc( p => sub { uc } );
    $result = $proc->process( 'Abracadabra' );
    # $result is 'ABRACADABRA'

Since the builtin function C<uc> uses C<$_> if an argument is omitted, there
is no need to explicitly handle parameters, and the result of the Proc is the
result of the "sub".

One may want to design a Proc where the C<p> sub is applied in only on data
that conforms to a certain structure, say "only arrays, and leave the scalars
alone" or "scalars only, throw an error if anything else comes our way". For
that refer to the L<DataFlow::Role::ProcPolicy> role.

=head2 DataFlow

A L<DataFlow> is a sequence of Procs, arranged so that each Proc's output is
fed into the next Proc's input. Sort of like a sequence of commands in a
shell using pipes "|" to connect one command to the next one.

A simple example of a DataFlow could be:

    $flow = DataFlow->new( [
        'URLRetriever',          # DataFlow::Proc::URLRetriever
        [                        # DataFlow::Proc::HTMLFilter with param
          HTMLFilter => { search_xpath => '//table//tr' }
        ],
        [                        # DataFlow::Proc::HTMLFilter with params
          HTMLFilter => {
              search_xpath => '//td',
              result_type  => 'VALUE',
              ref_result   => 1,
          }
        ],
        sub { s/^\s+//; s/\s+$//; return $_ },  # trim leading/trailing spaces
        CSV => { direction => 'CONVERT_TO', }
    ] );

Given an URL, this simple dataflow will retrieve its contents (assuming HTML),
will parse all the tables in it (specific tables or data i nthe HTML can be
singled-out using proper XPath expressions for them), it will trim the white
spaces and produce a CSV output, which can be used in a spreadsheet or to
load a database.

=head1 Creating Processors and/or Flows

To create a new Proc, one must extend L<DataFlow::Proc>.
When doing that, do refer to Moose best practices.
One simple example, the file C<< lib/DataFlow/Proc/UC.pm >> contained in this
distribution, is approximately like this:

    package DataFlow::Proc::UC;
    
    use Moose;
    extends 'DataFlow::Proc';
    
    sub _build_p {
        my $self = shift;  # not using here, but we do have $self
        return sub { uc };
    }
    
    1;

Any Proc under the C<DataFlow::Proc::> namespace can be used in a DataFlow by
its last name, in this case C<UC>.

    $flow = DataFlow->new( [
        # ... something here
        'UC',
        # ... something else
    ] );
    my @output = $flow->process( @input );

More sophisticated Procs can also be constructed. Take a look at the source
code of C<DataFLow::Proc::HTMLFilter>, C<DataFlow::Proc::URLRetriever> or
C<DataFlow::Proc::Converter>.

=head1 Tweaking the Core

DataFlow is not a very sophisticated piece of software on its own, as much
as a Bourne shell of the 70's was not very sophisticated, 
but B<it allows and promotes> extending its functionalities to make for 
sophisticated solutions.

=head2 A DataFlow

A DataFlow is nothing more than queues and processors:

    Information Flow

    ||===>||====>||==  ...  =>||========>||====>||      |
                                                        |
                     Queues                             |
                                                        |
    Q0    Q1    Q2          Q(n-1)       Qn    Qlast    | => output
      \  /  \  /  \    ...        \      /  \  /        |
       P0    P1    P2              P(n-1)    Pn         |
                                                        |
                   Processors                           |

Upon calling C<input()>, one adds elements to the B<Q0> queue. When C<output()>
is called, then the entire flow is run to provide one single element (read
scalar) at the C<output()> (actually, if C<output()> is called in array context
it returns all the elements available in B<Qlast> at the time).

When running data through the entire flow, these elements are run, through
B<P0> and the results (one or many) are enqueued in B<Q1>. One element from
B<Q1> is then run through  B<P1> and the result (or results) is enqueued into
B<Q2>, and so forth. Upon running the last processor, B<Pn>, the resulting
data is put into B<Qlast>, the last queue in the desert.

=head1 Code Repository

DataFlow source code is hosted at the superb L<Github|http://github.com/>
service, at the address L<http://github.com/russoz/DataFlow>.

Additionally, we strongly recommend that any serious project using Git do take
a look at gitflow: the
L<methodology|http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/> and the
L<git flow extension to git|https://github.com/nvie/gitflow>.

DataFlow has been using gitflow for a good while now, but please bear in mind
that you do not need to have gitflow installed, or even to follow the
methodology for that matter, to be able to provide a patch or open a pull
request.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Please see those modules/websites for more information related to this module.

=over 4

=item *

L<DataFlow|DataFlow>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Alexei Znamensky <russoz@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2011 by Alexei Znamensky.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

You can make new bug reports, and view existing ones, through the
web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org>.

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

BECAUSE THIS SOFTWARE IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE SOFTWARE, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT
WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER
PARTIES PROVIDE THE SOFTWARE "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
SOFTWARE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR, OR CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE SOFTWARE AS PERMITTED BY THE ABOVE LICENCE, BE LIABLE
TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
SOFTWARE (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

=cut


__END__

