=head1 NAME

Tangram::Type::Array::Scalar - map Perl array of strings or numbers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use Tangram::Core;
   use Tangram::Type::Array::Scalar; # always

   $schema = Tangram::Schema->new(
      classes => { NaturalPerson => { fields => {

      flat_array =>
      {
         interests =>
         {
            table => 'NP_int',
            sql => 'VARCHAR(50)',
         },

         lucky_numbers => 'int', # use defaults
      }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Maps references to a Perl array. The persistent fields are grouped in
a hash under the C<array> key in the field hash.

The array may contain only 'simple' scalars like integers, strings
or real numbers. It may not contain references. For arrays of
objects, see L<Tangram::Type::Array::FromMany> and L<Tangram::Type::Array::FromOne>.

Tangram uses a table to save the state of the collection. The table
has three columns, which contain

=over 4

=item * the id of the container object

=item * the position of the element in the array

=item * the value of the element

=back

The field names are passed in a hash that associates a field name with
a field descriptor. The field descriptor may be either a hash or a
string. The hash uses the following fields:

=over 4

=item * type

=item * table

=item * sql

=back

Optional field C<type> specifies the type of the elements. If the type
is C<string>Tangram quotes the values as they are passed to the
database.  Not specifying a C<type> is exactly equivalent to
specifying C<string>.

Optional field C<table> sets the name of the table that contains the
elements. This defaults to 'C_F', where C is the class of the
containing object and F is the field name.

Optional field C<sql> specifies the type that deploy() (see
L<Tangram::Deploy>) should use for the column containing the
elements. If this field is not present, the SQL type is derived from
the C<type> field: if C<type> is C<string> (or is absent) VARCHAR(255)
is used; otherwise, the C<type> field is interpreted as a SQL type.

If the descriptor is a string, it is interpreted as the value of the
C<type> field and all the other fields take the default value.
