=head1 NAME

KinoSearch::Docs::Cookbook - KinoSearch recipes.

=head1 DEPRECATED

The KinoSearch code base has been assimilated by the Apache L<Lucy> project.
The "KinoSearch" namespace has been deprecated, but development continues
under our new name at our new home: L<http://lucy.apache.org/>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Cookbook provides thematic documentation covering some of KinoSearch's
more sophisticated features.  For a step-by-step introduction to KinoSearch,
see L<KinoSearch::Docs::Tutorial>.

=head2 Chapters

=over

=item *

L<KinoSearch::Docs::Cookbook::FastUpdates> - While index updates are fast on
average, worst-case update performance may be significantly slower. To make
index updates consistently quick, we must manually intervene to control the
process of index segment consolidation.

=item *

L<KinoSearch::Docs::Cookbook::CustomQuery> - Explore KinoSearch's support for
custom query types by creating a "PrefixQuery" class to handle trailing
wildcards.

=item *

L<KinoSearch::Docs::Cookbook::CustomQueryParser> - Define your own custom
search query syntax using KinoSearch::Search::QueryParser and
L<Parse::RecDescent>.

=back

=head2 Materials

Some of the recipes in the Cookbook reference the completed
L<Tutorial|KinoSearch::Docs::Tutorial> application.  These materials can be
found in the C<sample> directory at the root of the KinoSearch distribution:

    sample/indexer.pl        # indexing app
    sample/search.cgi        # search app
    sample/us_constitution   # corpus

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2005-2011 Marvin Humphrey

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.


