=head1 NAME

KinoSearch::Docs::Tutorial - Step-by-step introduction to KinoSearch.

=head1 DEPRECATED

The KinoSearch code base has been assimilated by the Apache L<Lucy> project.
The "KinoSearch" namespace has been deprecated, but development continues
under our new name at our new home: L<http://lucy.apache.org/>

=head1 ABSTRACT 

Explore KinoSearch's basic functionality by starting with a minimalist CGI
search app based on L<KSx::Simple> and transforming it, step by step, into an
"advanced search" interface utilizing more flexible core modules like
L<KinoSearch::Index::Indexer> and L<KinoSearch::Search::IndexSearcher>.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Chapters

=over

=item *

L<KinoSearch::Docs::Tutorial::Simple> - Build a bare-bones search app using
L<KSx::Simple>.

=item *

L<KinoSearch::Docs::Tutorial::BeyondSimple> - Rebuild the app using core
classes like L<Indexer|KinoSearch::Index::Indexer> and
L<IndexSearcher|KinoSearch::Search::IndexSearcher> in place of KSx::Simple.

=item *

L<KinoSearch::Docs::Tutorial::FieldType> - Experiment with different field
characteristics using subclasses of L<KinoSearch::Plan::FieldType>.

=item *

L<KinoSearch::Docs::Tutorial::Analysis> - Examine how the choice of
L<KinoSearch::Analysis::Analyzer> subclass affects search results.

=item *

L<KinoSearch::Docs::Tutorial::Highlighter> - Augment search results with
highlighted excerpts.

=item *

L<KinoSearch::Docs::Tutorial::QueryObjects> - Unlock advanced search features
by using Query objects instead of query strings.

=back

=head2 Source materials

The source material used by the tutorial app -- a multi-text-file presentation
of the United States constitution -- can be found in the C<sample> directory
at the root of the KinoSearch distribution, along with finished indexing and search
apps.

    sample/indexer.pl        # indexing app
    sample/search.cgi        # search app
    sample/us_constitution   # corpus

=head2 Conventions

The user is expected to be familiar with OO Perl and basic CGI programming.

The code in this tutorial assumes a Unix-flavored operating system and the
Apache webserver, but will work with minor modifications on other setups.

=head1 SEE ALSO

More advanced and esoteric subjects are covered in
L<KinoSearch::Docs::Cookbook>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2005-2011 Marvin Humphrey

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.


