#DistZilla: +PodWeaver
#PODNAME: Lab::Moose::Sweep::Tutorial
#ABSTRACT: Documentation of high-level sweep framework

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Lab::Moose::Sweep::Tutorial - Documentation of high-level sweep framework

=head1 VERSION

version 3.624

=head1 Datafiles and datafolders

=head2 Quickstart: Measuring an IV-curve

As a basic example of a 1D sweepm, we measure an IV curve:

 # file: IV.pl
 use Lab::Moose; # you get 'use warnings; use strict;' for free

 my $source = instrument(
     type            => 'YokogawaGS200',
     connection_type => 'USB',
     # Safety limits:
     max_units => 10, min_units => -10,
     max_units_per_step => 0.1, max_units_per_second => 1
 );

 my $dmm = instrument(type => 'Agilent34410A', connection_type => 'USB');

 my $sweep = sweep(
     type       => 'Step::Voltage',
     instrument => $source,
     from => -5, to => 5, step => 0.01
 );

 my $datafile = sweep_datafile(columns => [qw/voltage current/]);

 my $meas = sub {
     my $sweep = shift;
     $sweep->log(
         voltage => $source->cached_level(),
         current => $dmm->get_value(),
     );
 };

 $sweep->start(
     measurement => $meas,
     datafile    => $datafile,
 );

Running this script repeatedly creates output folders F<MEAS_000>, F<MEAS_001>,
...
The folders contain the following files:

=over

=item * F<IV.pl>

Copy of the measurement script.

=item * F<META.yml>

YAML file with various metadata (time of script run, username, hostname, copy of the
used commandline, Lab::Measurement version, ...).

=item * F<data.dat>

Gnuplot-style datafile:

 # voltage        current
 -5               42
 -4.99            43
 ...

=back

=head3 Backsweeps

To also measure the IV in the reverse direction from -5 to 5 volts, we add the
C<backsweep> option:

 my $sweep = sweep(
     type       => 'Step::Voltage',
     instrument => $source,
     from => -5, to => 5, step => 0.01,
     backsweep  => 1,
 );

=head2 The datafolder

You can change the name of the datafolder by providing a C<folder> argument to
the C<start> method:

 $sweep->start(
     measurement => $meas,
     datafile    => $datafile,
     folder      => 'IV_curve'
 );

This will create output folders with names F<IV_curve_xxx>.

=head2 Multiple datafiles

We can create multiple datafiles:

 my $datafile1 = sweep_datafile(
     filename => 'data1',
     columns  => [qw/voltage current/]
 );
 my $datafile2 = sweep_datafile(
     filename => 'data2',
     columns  => [qw/voltage current/]
 );

 $sweep->start(
     measurement => $meas,
     datafiles   => [$datafile1, $datafile2],
     folder      => 'IV_curve'
 );

And in the C<$meas> subroutine, call the sweeps's C<log> method for both datafiles:

 my $meas = sub {
     my $sweep = shift;
     my $voltage = $source->cached_level();
     $sweep->log(
         datafile => $datafile1,
         voltage  => $voltage,
         current  => $dmm1->get_value(),
     );
     $sweep->log(
         datafile => $datafile2,
         voltage  => $voltage,
         current  => $dmm2->get_value()
    );
 };

=head1 Multi-dimensional sweeps: Datafile dimensions and filename extensions

=head2 2D sweeps

Let us start with a simple 2D sweep: we sweep a gate voltage (outer sweep) and
a bias voltage and again measure a current:

 use Lab::Moose;

 # As we use two Yokogawa's, we need to provide USB serial IDs
 my $gate_source = instrument(
     type               => 'YokogawaGS200',
     connection_type    => 'USB',
     connection_options => {serial => '...'},
     # Safety limits:
     max_units => 10, min_units => -10,
     max_units_per_step => 0.1, max_units_per_second => 1
 );

 my $bias_source = instrument(
     type               => 'YokogawaGS200',
     connection_type    => 'USB',
     connection_options => {serial => '...'},
     # Safety limits:
     max_units => 10, min_units => -10,
     max_units_per_step => 0.1, max_units_per_second => 1
 );

 my $dmm = instrument(type => 'Agilent34410A', connection_type => 'USB');

 my $gate_sweep = sweep(
     type       => 'Step::Voltage',
     instrument => $gate_source,
     from => 0, to => 1, step => 0.1
 );

 my $bias_sweep = sweep(
     type       => 'Step::Voltage',
     instrument => $bias_source,
     from => 0, to => 1, step => 0.1
 );

 my $datafile = sweep_datafile(columns => [qw/gate bias current/]);

 my $meas = sub {
     my $sweep = shift;
     my $v_gate = $gate_source->cached_level();
     my $v_bias = $bias_source->cached_level();
     $sweep->log(
         gate    => $v_gate,
         bias    => $v_bias,
         current => $dmm->get_value(),
     );
 };

 $gate_sweep->start(
     slave       => $bias_sweep,
     measurement => $meas,
     datafile    => $datafile,
 );

By default, this will create a 2D block datafile:

 # gate    bias    current
 0         0       x
 0         0.1     x
 0         0.2     x
 ...
 0         1       x

 0.1       0       x
 0.1       0.1     x
 0.1       0.2     x
 ...
 ...

 1         0       x
 ...
 1         1       x

Alternatively, we can create multiple 1D datafiles, one for each value of the
gate voltage. We do this by setting the C<datafile_dim> parameter to 1:

 $gate_sweep->start(
     slave        => $bias_sweep,
     measurement  => $meas,
     datafile     => $datafile,
     datafile_dim => 1
 );

The output files will be F<<data_Voltage=0.dat, data_Voltage=0.1.dat, ...,
data_Voltage=1.dat>> We can customize the F<Voltage=> part in the datafile
names by providing a
B<filename extension> in the gate sweep:

 my $gate_sweep = sweep(
     type               => 'Step::Voltage',
     instrument         => $gate_source,
     from => 0, to => 1, step => 0.1,
     filename_extension => 'Gate=',
 );

=head2 Higher dimensional sweeps

If we create sweeps setups with dimension > 2, the maximum datafile dimension
remains 2. E.g. if we create a 3D sweep [Temperature, Gate, Bias], a 2D
datafile will be created for each value of the temperature sweep.
If we set C<datafile_dim> to 1, a subfolder will be created for each value of
the temperature and the subfolders contain 1D datafiles for each gate voltage.

FIXME: link to example script.

=head1 Live plotting

=head2 Line plots

Let us add a simple line plot to our IV measurement:

 my $datafile = sweep_datafile(columns => [qw/voltage current/]);
 
 $datafile->add_plot(
     x => 'voltage',
     y => 'current',
 );

This will create a live line plot, which will be updated for each new data
point. A copy of the plot will be saved in the output folder in png format with
filename C<"$datafile.png">. You can change this filename with the
C<hard_copy> option:

 $datafile->add_plot(
     x         => 'voltage',
     y         => 'current',
     hard_copy => 'data.png',
 );

=head2 Color maps (3D plots)

Let us add a color plot to the gate/bias 2D sweep:

 my $datafile = sweep_datafile(columns => [qw/gate bias current/]);
 
 $datafile->add_plot(
     type => 'pm3d',
     x    => 'gate',
     y    => 'bias',
     z    => 'current'
 );

By default, the live plot will be updated after a bias sweep is completed.

=head2 Customizing plot and curve options

There are many ways to customize a plot and it's hard copy:

=head3 Terminal options

If we don't want to use gnuplot's default terminal for the live plot or hard copy,
we use the C<terminal>, C<hard_copy_terminal>, C<terminal_options> and
C<hard_copy_terminal_options> options:

 $datafile->add_plot(
     type                       => 'pm3d',
     x                          => 'gate',
     y                          => 'bias',
     z                          => 'current',
     terminal                   => 'x11',
     terminal_options           => {linewidth => 3},
     hard_copy                  => 'data.jpg',
     hard_copy_terminal         => 'jpeg',
     hard_copy_terminal_options => {linewidth => 0.5}
 ); 

=head3 Plot and curve options

L<PDL::Graphics::Gnuplot> separates between plot options and curve options:

 $datafile->add_plot(
     type => 'pm3d',
     x    => 'gate',
     y    => 'bias',
     z    => 'current',
     plot_options => {
         title   => 'x - y plot',
         xlabel  => 'x (V)',
         ylabel  => 'y (V)',
         cblabel => 'current (A)', # label for color box
         format  => {x => "'%.2e'", y => "'%.2e'"},
         grid    => 0, # disable grid
     },
     curve_options => {
         with      => 'lines', # default is 'points'
         linetype  => 2, # color
         linewidth => 2,
     },
 );      

More Plot and curve options are documented in L<PDL::Graphics::Gnuplot>.

=head1 Block data

There are types of instruments which return more than a single data. Examples
are spectrum and network analyzers, which perform a frequency sweep and return
an array of data after each sweep.

The C<sparam_sweep> method provided, e.g., by the
L<Lab::Moose::Instrument::RS_ZVA> returns a 2D PDL with the following format:

 [
  [freq1    , freq2    , ..., freqN    ],
  [Re(S11)_1, Re(S11)_2, ..., Re(S11)_N],
  [Im(S11)_1, Im(S11)_2, ..., Im(S11)_N],
  [Amp_1    , Amp_2    , ..., Amp_N    ],
  [phase_1  , phase_2  , ..., phase_N  ],
 ]

The following script sweeps a voltage source and performs a frequency sweep
with the VNA for each level of the voltage source. Each VNA sweep is logged
into a separate datafile which contains one line of data for each frequency
point.

 use Lab::Moose;

 my $source = instrument(
     type            => 'YokogawaGS200',
     connection_type => 'USB',
     # Safety limits:
     max_units => 10, min_units => -10,
     max_units_per_step => 0.1, max_units_per_second => 1
 );

 my $vna = instrument(
     type               => 'RS_ZVA',
     connection_type    => 'VXI11',
     connection_options => {host => '192.168.x.x'},
 );

 my $sweep = sweep(
     type => 'Step::Voltage',
     instrument => $source,
     from => -5, to => 5, step => 0.01
 );

 my $datafile = sweep_datafile(
     columns => [qw/voltage freq Re_S21 Im_S21 amplitude phase/]);

 my $meas = sub {
     my $sweep = shift;
     my $voltage = $source->cached_level();
     my $block = $vna->sparam_sweep(timeout => 10, average => 100);

     $sweep->log_block(
         prefix => {voltage => $voltage},
         block => $block
     );
 };

 $sweep->start(
     measurement => $meas,
     datafile   => $datafile,
     datafile_dim => 1, # each VNA trace in a separate file
     point_dim => 1, # the measurement sub logs blocks, not points
 );

Without the C<< point_dim => 1 >> setting, only one datafile would be
generated. One could also log all blocks into a single 2D datafile by setting
C<< datafile_dim => 2 >>.

=head1 Continuous sweeps

With continuous sweeps, the sweep parameter is ramped in the background while
data is recorded. This is in constrast with step/list sweeps where the sweep
parameter is kept constant during data acquisition.
The rate of measurement points taken is controlled by the C<interval> sweep
attribute.

For example, the following time sweep records data every 0.5 seconds and
finishes after 60 seconds:

 use Lab::Moose;

 my $sweep = sweep(
     type => 'Continuous::Time',
     interval => 0.5,
     duration => 60
 );

=head2 Magnet sweeps

Note that the rate is given in Tesla/min.

 my $sweep = sweep(
     type => 'Continuous::Magnet',
     instrument => $ips,
     from => -1, # Tesla
     to => 1,
     rate => 0.1, # (Tesla/min, always positive)
     start_rate => 1, # (optional, rate to approach start point)
     interval => 0.5, # one measurement every 0.5 seconds
 );

=head1 Further customization

=head2 The delay_before_loop, delay_in_loop, and delay_after_loop attributes

These attributes can be used to introduce delays into a sweep:

 my $sweep = sweep(
     type       => 'Step::Voltage',
     instrument => $source,
     from => -5, to => 5, step => 0.01,
     delay_before_loop => 1.5,
     delay_in_loop => 0.1,
     delay_after_loop => 2.5,
 );

With C<delay_before_loop> set, the sweep will sleep 1.5 seconds before
starting the sweep (after going to the start point of the sweep). With
C<delay_in_loop> set, there is a sleep between going to the setpoint and
calling the measurement subroutine. The C<delay_after_loop> causes a delay
between finishing the sweep and going back to the start point.

=head2 The before_loop coderef

The C<before_loop> coderef is used to execute arbitrary code at the start of a sweep:

 my $before_loop = sub {
     print("will start loop now\n");
 };

 my $sweep = sweep(
     type       => 'Step::Voltage',
     instrument => $source,
     from => -5, to => 5, step => 0.01,
     before_loop => $before_loop,
 );

The C<$before_loop> code is called after a possible C<delay_before_loop> delay.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2018 by the Lab::Measurement team; in detail:

  Copyright 2018       Simon Reinhardt


This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
