=head1 NAME

Lingua::Sindarin::Dictionary - A Dictionary for the Sindarin language

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.01

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Quick summary of what the module does.

	my $d = Lingua::Sindarin::Dictionary->new( dict => 'sindarin-english');
	my $res = $d->search("amdir");
	say $res;

	my $d = Lingua::Sindarin::Dictionary->new( dict => 'english-sindarin');
	my $res = $d->search("writer");
	say $res;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a simple module to work as a english/sindarin and sindarin/english dictionary. Use the 'search' method to look for words in both dictionaries.
All data was compiled from http://www.councilofelrond.com/.

=head1 AUTHOR

Felipe da Veiga Leprevost, C<< <leprevost at cpan.org> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-lingua-sindarin-dictionary at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Lingua-Sindarin-Dictionary>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.




=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Lingua::Sindarin::Dictionary


You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker (report bugs here)

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Lingua-Sindarin-Dictionary>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Lingua-Sindarin-Dictionary>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Lingua-Sindarin-Dictionary>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Lingua-Sindarin-Dictionary/>

=back


=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS


=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2014 Felipe da Veiga Leprevost.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See L<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/> for more information.


