=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

TCOD::Image - The TCOD image toolkit

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use TCOD;

    my $image = TCOD::Image->load( $path );
    $image->invert;

    # Render the whole image to the root console
    $image->blit_rect( undef, 0, 0, -1, -1, TCOD::BKGND_NONE );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class makes it possible to load image files, manipulate them, and render
them onto L<TCOD::Console> objects. Likewise, the contents of L<TCOD::Console>
objects can be converted to images and saved to disk.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

    $image = TCOD::Image->new( $width, $height );

Create a black image with the specified dimensions.

=head2 load

    $image = TCOD::Image->load( $path );

Load an image from a BMP or PNG file. If using PNG files, only 24- and 32-bit
images are supported.

=head2 from_console

    $image = TCOD::Image->from_console( $console );

Create an image with the contents of a console. The size of the image will
depend on the size of the console and the character size of the font.

=head2 save

    $image->save( $path );

Save the image to a BMP or PNG file.

=head2 refresh_console

    $image->refresh_console( $console );

Refresh the image created with L<from_console> with the current content of a
console. The console must have the same dimensions as the console used when
the image was created.

=head2 put_pixel

    $image->put_pixel( $x, $y, $color );

Change the color of the pixel specified by its coordinates.

=head2 scale

    $image->scale( $width, $height );

Resize an image scaling its contents. Super-sampling is used for scaling down.
Scaling up uses nearest neighbours.

=head2 get_pixel

    $color = $image->get_pixel( $x, $y );

=head2 get_alpha

    $alpha = $image->get_alpha( $x, $y );

=head2 get_mipmap_pixel

    $color = $image->get_mipmap_pixel( $x1, $y1, $x2, $y2 );

=head2 rotate90

    $image->rotate90( $times );

Rotate the image clockwise in 90 degree increments. To rotate the image
180 degrees, set C<$times> to 2.

=head2 invert

    $image->invert;

Invert the colors of all the pixels in the image.

=head2 vflip

    $image->vflip;

Flip the image vertically.

=head2 hflip

    $image->hflip;

Flip the image horizontally.

=head2 clear

    $image->clear( $color );

Set all the pixels in the image to the specified color.

=head2 set_key_color

    $image->set_key_color( $color );

Set a key color that will be ignored by the blitting function. Pixels of this
color will not be rendered, which makes it possible to blit non-rectangular
images with transparent pixels.

=head2 blit

    $image->blit( $console, $x, $y, $flags, $scale_x, $scale_y, $angle );

Blit an image on a console. The first two parameters (which must be integers)
specify the coordinates of the cell in the target console where the centre
of the image will be rendered. The flags determine how the cell's background
is modified and must be a value in the L<BackgroundFlag|TCOD/BackgroundFlag>
enum.

The image can be scaled and rotated with the last three parameters. Of these,
the first and second determine the horizontal and vertical scaling
respectively. These must be values between 0 and 1. The last value determines
the rotation angle in radians.

=head2 blit_2x

    $image->blit_2x(
        $console,
        $cell_x,
        $cell_y,
        $image_x,
        $image_y,
        $image_width,
        $image_height,
    );

Blit the image with sub-cell resolution.

The first two values determine the coordinate of the cell in the console where
the upper-left corner of the blitted image will be.

The last four values determine the portion of the image to blit. To blit the
entire image, -1 can be used for the width and height.

=head2 blit_rect

    $image->blit_rect( $console, $x, $y, $w, $h, $flags );

Blit a rectangular part of the image on a console without scaling or
rotating it. Each pixel in the image fills a cell in the console. For a
method that supports rotation and scaling, see L<blit|/blit>.

The value in C<$flags> is one of those in the
L<BackgroundFlag|TCOD/BackgroundFlag> enum.

=head2 get_size

    ( $w, $h ) = $image->get_size;

Returns a list with the width and height of an image in pixels.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<TCOD>

=item L<TCOD::Color>

=item L<TCOD::Console>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2021 José Joaquín Atria

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the Artistic License 2.0.
