=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

TCOD::Map - A grid of cells for field-of-view calculations

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use TCOD;

    my $map = TCOD::Map->new( 10, 10 );

    $map->set_properties( 6, 5, 0, 0 ); # Opaque cell
    $map->compute_fov( 5, 5 );

    $map->is_in_fov( 7, 5 );
    # False: [ 6, 5 ] is opaque and obstructs the view from [ 5, 5 ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A TCOD::Map represents a grid of cells that can be used for path-finding and
field-of-view calculations.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

    $map = TCOD::Map->new( $width, $height );

Construct a new TCOD::Map. Takes the width and height of the map in cells as
positional arguments.

=head2 set_properties

    $map->set_properties( $x, $y, $walkable, $transparent );

Set the properties of a cell in the map. Specifically, C<$walkable> should be
true if this cell does not obstruct the pathfinder, and C<$transparent> should
be true if this cell does not obstruct the field of vision algorithm.

=head2 clear

    $map->clear( $walkable, $transparent );

Resets all of a map's cells to have the specified attributes.

=head2 copy

    $source->copy( $destination );

Copy the cells of one map into another. The destination map should be at least
large enough to hold the source map.

=head2 compute_fov

    $map->compute_fov( $x, $y, $radius, $light_walls, $algorithm );

Compute the field of view from the specified cell. The value in the C<$radius>
parameter will determine how far to extend the line of sight, while the value
in C<$light_walls> will determine whether walls adjacent to visible cells should
themselves be visible.

The value in C<$algorithm> should be one of the values in the L<FOV|TCOD/FOV>
enum. If no value is set, it will default to C<TCOD::FOV_BASIC>.

=head2 is_in_fov

    $bool = $map->is_in_fov( $x, $y );

After computing the field of view for this map, this method queries whether a
particular cell is visible or not.

=head2 is_transparent

    $bool = $map->is_transparent( $x, $y );

Returns true if the specified cell has the attribute C<transparent> set to a
true value.

=head2 is_walkable

    $bool = $map->is_walkable( $x, $y );

Returns true if the specified cell has the attribute C<walkable> set to a
true value.

=head2 get_width

    $width = $map->get_width;

Returns the width of the map in cells. This is the same value used during object
construction.

=head2 get_height

    $height = $map->get_height;

Returns the height of the map in cells. This is the same value used during object
construction.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<TCOD>

=item L<TCOD::Path>

=item L<TCOD::Dijkstra>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2021 José Joaquín Atria

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the Artistic License 2.0.
