=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

TCOD::Random - A fast and high quality pseudo-random number generator

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use TCOD;

    my $rng    = TCOD::Random->new( TCOD::RNG_CMWC );
    my $backup = $rng->save;

    # Generate 11 random numbers between 0 and 10 inclusive
    my @numbers = map $rng->get_int( 0, 10 ), 0 .. 10;

    $rng->restore( $backup );

    # Generate _the same_ sequence of numbers after restoring state
    my @more_numbers = map $rng->get_int( 0, 10 ), 0 .. 10;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Perl already has great random generators available. But some parts of the
Doryen library (noise, heightmap, ...) uses RNG as parameters. If you intend
to use those functions, you must provide a RNG created with this library.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 get_instance

    $rng = TCOD::Random->get_instance;

The simplest way to get random number is to use the default generator. The
first time you get this generator, it is initialised by calling L<new|/new>.
Then, on successive calls, this function returns the same generator.

The default instance uses the C<TCOD::RNG_CMWC> algorithm since libtcod 1.5.0.

=head2 new

    $rng = TCOD::Random->new( $algo );

Initialise a random number generator with the specified algorithm. The value in
C<$algo> must be one of the L<RandomAlgo|TCOD/RandomAlgo> enum.

This function will internally call L<new_from_seed|/new_from_seed> with the
current timestamp as the seed (which means that calling it twice in the same
second will return the same generator).

=head2 new_from_seed

    $rng = TCOD::Random->new_from_seed( $algo, $seed );

Create a new pseudo-random number generator with the specified algorithm and
seed. The seed should be a 32-bit integer, while the algorithm must be a value
in the L<RandomAlgo|TCOD/RandomAlgo> enum.

=head2 save

    $backup = $rng->save;

Save the state of the generator.

=head2 restore

    $rng->restore( $backup );

Restore a random number generator to a previous state. See L<save|/save> for
how to capture this backup.

=head2 set_distribution

    $rng->set_distribution( $distribution );

Set the distribution used by this pseudo-random number generator.
The distribution must be one from the L<Distribution|TCOD/Distribution> enum,
where  C<TCOD::DISTRIBUTION_LINEAR> is the default.

All random number getters called on this generator will then use this
distribution automatically to fetch your random numbers.

Some functions (eg. L<get_int_mean|/get_int_mean> specify both a min-max range
I<and> a custom mean, which can be any value (possibly either min or max, but
it can even be outside that range). In case such a function is used, the
distributions will trigger a slightly different behaviour.

When using these distributions, the selected mean will have the highest
probability of appearing:

=over

=item * TCOD::DISTRIBUTION_LINEAR

=item * TCOD::DISTRIBUTION_GAUSSIAN

=item * TCOD::DISTRIBUTION_GAUSSIAN_RANGE

=back

When using these distributions, the selected mean will have the lowest
probability of appearing:

=over

=item * TCOD::DISTRIBUTION_GAUSSIAN_INVERSE

=item * TCOD::DISTRIBUTION_GAUSSIAN_RANGE_INVERSE

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<TCOD>

=item L<TCOD::Noise>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2021 José Joaquín Atria

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the Artistic License 2.0.
