=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

TCOD::Sys - System functions for TCOD

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use TCOD;

    ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Handle events in TCOD applications.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 set_fps

    TCOD::Sys::set_fps( $fps );

The C<set_fps> function allows you to limit the number of frames per second.
If a frame is rendered faster than expected, the TCOD_console_flush function
will wait so that the frame rate never exceed this value.

You can call this function during your game initialisation.

You can dynamically change the frame rate. Just call this function once again.

B<You should always limit the frame rate, except during benchmarks, else your
game will use 100% of the CPU power>.

=head2 get_fps

    $fps = TCOD::Sys::get_fps;

The value returned by this function is updated every second.

=head2 get_last_frame_length

    $seconds = TCOD::Sys::get_last_frame_length;

This function returns the length in seconds of the last rendered frame.
You can use this value to update every time dependent object in the world.

=head2 sleep_milli

    TCOD::Sys::sleep_milli( $milliseconds );

Use this function to stop the program execution for a specified number
of milliseconds.

=head2 elapsed_milli

    $milliseconds = TCOD::Sys::elapsed_milli;

This function returns the number of milliseconds since the program has
started.

=head2 elapsed_seconds

    $seconds = TCOD::Sys::elapsed_seconds;

This function returns the number of seconds since the program has started.

=head2 save_screenshot

    TCOD::Sys::save_screenshot( $path );

This function allows you to save the current game screen in a PNG file, or
possibly a BMP file if you provide a filename ending with C<.bmp>.

=head2 update_char

    TCOD::Sys::update_char( $code, $x, $y, $image, $x, $y );

You can dynamically change the bitmap of a character in the font. All cells
using this ASCII code will be updated at next flush call.

=head2 set_renderer

    TCOD::Sys::set_renderer( $renderer );

As of 1.5.1, libtcod contains 3 different renderers:

=over

=item * SDL

Historic libtcod renderer. Should work and be pretty fast everywhere

=item * OpenGL

Requires OpenGL compatible video card. Might be much faster or much slower
than SDL, depending on the drivers

=item * GLSDL

Requires OpenGL 1.4 compatible video card with C<GL_ARB_shader_objects>
extension. Blazing fast if you have the proper hardware and drivers.

=back

This function switches the current renderer dynamically. The value in
C<$renderer> must be an element of the L<Renderer|TCOD/Renderer> enum.

=head2 get_renderer

    $renderer = TCOD::Sys::get_renderer;

Get the internal renderer. This will be an element of the
L<Renderer|TCOD/Renderer> enum.

=head2 get_char_size

    ( $w, $h ) = TCOD::Sys::get_char_size;

You can get the size in pixels of the characters in the font.

=head2 get_current_resolution

    ( $w, $h ) = TCOD::Sys::get_current_resolution;

You can get the current screen resolution with
L<get_current_resolution|/get_current_resolution>.

You can use it for example to get the desktop resolution before initialising
the root console.

=head2 force_fullscreen_resolution

    TCOD::Sys::force_fullscreen_resolution( $width, $height );

This function allows you to force the use of a specific resolution in
fullscreen mode. The default resolution depends on the root console size
and the font character size.

=head2 get_directory_contents

    @filenames = TCOD::Sys::get_directory_contents( $path );

Returns a list of the contents of a directory (including files and
subdirectories), not including C<.> and C<..>. Will die with an error message
if the operation fails.

This function is implemented here for compatibility. Standard Perl solutions
are probably preferable.

=head2 wait_for_event

    # Deprecated
    TCOD::Sys::wait_for_event( $mask, \$key, \$mouse, $flush );

This function waits for an event from the user. The C<$mask> shows what
events we're waiting for. The return value indicate what event was actually
triggered. Values in key and mouse structures are updated accordingly.

If flush is false, the function waits only if there are no pending events,
else it returns the first event in the buffer.

This function is deprecated. Use C<SDL_WaitEvent> from SDL instead.

=head2 check_for_event

    # Deprecated
    $event = TCOD::Sys::check_for_event( $mask, \$key, \$mouse );

This function checks if an event from the user is in the buffer. The
C<$mask> shows what events we're waiting for. The return value indicates what
event was actually found. Values in key and mouse structures are updated
accordingly.

This function is deprecated. Use C<SDL_PollEvent> from SDL instead.

=head2 clipboard_set

    # Deprecated
    $bool = TCOD::Sys::clipboard_set( $contents );

Takes UTF-8 text and copies it into the system clipboard. On Linux, because
an application cannot access the system clipboard unless a window is open,
if no window is open the call will do nothing.

This function is deprecated. Use SDL2 to handle the clipboard.

=head2 clipboard_get

    # Deprecated
    $contents = TCOD::Sys::clipboard_get;

Returns the UTF-8 text currently in the system clipboard. On Linux, because
an application cannot access the system clipboard unless a window is open,
if no window is open an empty string will be returned.

This function is deprecated. Use SDL2 to handle the clipboard.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<TCOD>

=item L<TCOD::Console>

=item L<TCOD::Key>

=item L<TCOD::Mouse>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2021 José Joaquín Atria

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the Artistic License 2.0.
