

=head1 NAME

HTML::WikiConverter::DokuWikiFCK - A WikiConverter Dialect supporting the FCKeditor in DokuWiki


=head1 SYNOPSIS

DokuWikiFCK is not designed to be used independently of DokuWiki and the dwfckg plugin, of
which it is a part.  It sits between the FCKeditor and DokuWiki and converts the HTML
created by the FCKeditor into an extended DokuWiki markup.

It has no public programming interface. It is a subclass of
HTML::WikiConverter::DokuWiki and may be itself subclassed to add
functionality.

=head1 DESCRIPTION


DokuWikiFCK subclasses HTML::WikiConverter::DokuWiki in order to support
the FCKeditor. Its aim is to support as many as possible of the graphic
capabilities of the FCKeditor, giving users of DokuWiki access to layout
and design featuires. DokuWikiFCK currently supports font selection,
color choice (text-color and background-color), tables lists, text sizes
and weights, block elements, etc. In all of these it is possible to
apply, where applicable, background colors (as in tables) and all font
attributes. 

It supports both text and image positioning. The FCKeditor enables a
number of fixed positioning features: --left, right, and center
justification and fixed pixel width indents and outdents. DokuWikiFCK
supports all of these. One of its unique features is that it supports
space-bar positioning--i.e. pushing elements to the right one space at a
time and moving them backward with the delete key.



=head1 INSTALLATION

=over

=item Installing from CPAN

    perl -MCPAN -e 'install HTML::WikiConverter::DokuWikiFCK'
    
    This will install all of the Perl dependencies you need as well as
    the dwfckg DokuWiki plugin. 
   

    This method makes sense for a first-time install.

=item Installing from  the Command Line
 
    You can download the current version of DokuWikiFCK from either CPAN or
    http://www.mturner.org/development and then install the module manually.
    
    This method makes sense if you have already installed a previous version
    and are upgrading.  Then you can consult the README before installing for
    any instructions applying the upgrade.  

    The standard instructions for installing manually are:

    gzip -dc  HTML-WikiConverter-DokuWikiFCK-0.<nn>.tar.gz  | tar -xvf -
           OR
    tar -xzf HTML-WikiConverter-DokuWikiFCK-0.<nn>.tar.gz

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install


=item Installation of the image manager


To implement inserting and uploading of images:

	1.replace the copy of DokuWiki's mediamanager.php in tpl/<default> with 
the one included in this package. Either of the above two installation methods
will try to do this for you.

        2. Create a userfiles directory in your doucment root directory.  Inside userfiles,
create a symbolic link that points to the dokuwiki media directory:
             userfiles
                image -> <dokuwiki_directory>/data/media
 

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

See the README file.

Illustrations and information are currently available at the following web site:
     http://www.mturner.org/development

=head1 AUTHOR

Myron Turner E<lt>turnermm02@shaw.caE<gt>


=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2008 by Myron Turner
License: GPL2 or Perl

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.8.8 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.


=cut
