=pod

=head1 NAME

Tie::Hash::MultiValueOpts - Store multiple values per option

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Getopt::Std               qw( getopts );
  use Tie::Hash::MultiValueOpts ();

  tie my %opts, 'Tie::Hash::MultiValueOpts', l => [];
  getopts( 'a:bl:', \%opts );

  # is equivalent to

  tie my %opts, 'Tie::Hash::MultiValueOpts';
  $opts{ l } = [];
  getopts( 'a:bl:', \%opts );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The L<Getopt::Std> core module exports the C<getopts()> function that processes
single-character options. If we use the two-argument form of C<getopts()>,
the second parameter C<\%opts> is a hash reference that stores the processing
result. Each hash key refers to a provided option and the corresponding hash
value refers to the option-argument (or C<1> if it is a flag).

If an option that requires an option-argument is provided multiple times,
the last argument wins (implicit overwrite). Sometimes we want to treat an
option (C<l> for example) as a multi-value option. In this case we can bind
the C<%opts> variable to this class and initialize the multi-value option to
an empty array reference. If the multi-value option is now provided multiple
times, their values are stored in order in C<@{ $opts{ l } }>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 2

=item *

L<Tie::Hash>

=item *

L<Tie::Hash::MultiValue>

=item *

L<Tie::Hash::MultiValueOrdered>

=item *

L<Hash::MultiValue>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Sven Willenbuecher <sven.willenbuecher@gmx.de>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2025 by Sven Willenbuecher.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
