
# ABSTRACT: CSVJF (CSV with JSON Fields) file format specification
#PODNAME: CSVJF

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

CSVJF - CSVJF (CSV with JSON Fields) file format specification

=head1 SPECIFICATION VERSION

0.1

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.1.1 of CSVJF (from Perl distribution CSVJF), released on 2019-06-19.

=head1 STATUS

Draft series (0.x), might still change. Will be stable in 1.0.

=head1 ABSTRACT

CSVJF (short for "CSV with JSON field") is an extension to the CSV format to
allow fields that contain JSON string, arrays, or hashes (objects).

=head1 NOTATION

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

=head1 RATIONALE

CSV is a convenient format to generate or write manually. However, it does not
allow fields to be a data structure.

CSVJF extends the CSV specification as follows:

A CSV file is zero or more lines, separated by newlines. Each line represent a
row of fields.

The first line may be a header line.

Each line is a comma-separated list of fields.

A field is either an unquoted string, a JSON-encoded string, a JSON-encoded
array, or a JSON-encoded hash (object).

An unquoted string must not contain the record separator character (newline) or
field separator character (comma). If the field wants to contain these
characters it must be written as a JSON-encoded string. It also must not start
with opening square bracket ("[") or opening curly brace ("{") because those
characters are used for JSON array and hash, respectively.

A JSON-encoded string is string enclosed in double quotes ("). Escaping follows
JSON rules.

A JSON-encoded array is string enclosed in square brackets ("[" and "]").

A JSON-encoded hash is string enclosed in curly braces ("{" and "}").

Some examples of CSVJF rows:

 one,two,three

 "field one with spaces","field two with
 newline and com,ma,s",field 3,["field5","array"],{"field6":"hash"}

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/CSVJF>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-CSVJF>.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=CSVJF>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=head1 SEE ALSO

CSVJ file format, L<https://csvj.org/>. This file format attempts to standardize
the CSV format with JSON rules. It's basically JSON array with the "[" and "]"
square brackets removed (implied), with additional restriction of elements
cannot be array/object. Thus, every string field must be quoted except when a
field is a number, boolean C<true>/C<false> literal, or C<null>.

IOD format specification, L<IOD>, which also employs the use of encoding
prefixes C<">, C<[> and C<{> to embed JSON string, array, and hash,
respectively.

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2019 by perlancar@cpan.org.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
