
=head1 WHATS NEW IN SCRIPTALICIOUS

=head2 VERSION 1.17

=over

=item Fix deadlock with C<out =E<gt> sub { ... }>

Between Perl versions 5.17.5 and 5.17.6, a change was introduced which
exposed a common pipe deadlock bug in this module, if you used closures
which handle filehandles. [closes: RT#85999]

=back

=head2 VERSION 1.16

=over

=item Clear PERL5OPT before invoking $^X in tests

To hopefully resolve some false failures

=item Fix code for case when Time::HiRes is not available

I never got a report about this, but it clearly didn't work!  Guess
no-one's using a Perl before 5.7.3 or without that module any more.

=item put the magic AUTOLOAD back

Scriptalicious will do most of its core stuff without compiling most
of itself, and there is an AUTOLOAD hook which puts them into place.
I decided to re-enable it.

=item remove (soft) dependency on Pod::Constants

Scriptalicious scripts are less delicious without a working --help,
and many systems did not bother with this soft dependency, so it is
of benefit to just implement what that code did instead.

=item new $CONFIG variable

Used for telling where config was read from (or specifying where it is
to be read from)

=item deal with negative values in sci_unit and time_unit

These functions didn't deal with negative input; fix that.

=back

=head2 VERSION 1.15

=over

=item Add missing copyright notices and license.

Gah, sorry about this.  Note that it is a retrospective license, so
you don't need to 'upgrade' to this version to copy the software.

=back

=head2 VERSION 1.14

=over

=item 5.6.x compat: fix missed instance of unquoted filehandle in test suite

=back

=head2 VERSION 1.13

=over

=item 5.6.x compat: don't use readline FH; use <FH> instead

=item Don't die if getconf is called without YAML installed; warn instead

=item Make YAML config test conditional on YAML being installed

=item Fix incorrectly written e-mail address in Makefile.PL

=item Remove TODO file; these features have been added!

=back

=head2 VERSION 1.12

=over

=item Add getopt_lenient()

=item Add time_unit() function

=item Use time_unit instead of sci_unit in show_elapsed/show_delta

=item Fix test that was still testing for µ

=back

=head2 VERSION 1.11

=over

=item Drop C<Module::Build> dependency

Go back to C<ExtUtils::MakeMaker>.

=item Fix various problems with prompt_*

=item Add C<hush_exec> and C<unhush_exec> functions

=item Make C<getopt()> optional for getting verbosity right

=item Functions don't clobber $_ (Gerard Goosen)

=back

=head2 VERSION 1.10

Add prompt_file from an earlier branch.

Fix F<Build.PL> so a compatibility Makefile.PL is generated.

=head2 VERSION 1.09

Another "brown paper bag release".  Fixed a bug in tsay that would
cause it not to work if there was a true value in $1 already.  Bring
on Perl 6 and lexical $/.

=head2 VERSION 1.08

Added new functions 'anydump' and the awesome 'tsay'

=head2 VERSION 1.07

Brown paper bag release - the prompting had some debug statements
left behind.

=head2 VERSION 1.06

Documentation modifications only; it was quite rightly pointed out
that the documentation didn't really say what the script is useful
for.


=head2 VERSION 1.05

=over

=item B<Prompting>

Prompt the user for arbitrary things via prompt_for(-int => "foo"),
with readline support.

=item B<Filehandle Plugging and Playing>

All functions that run things (ie C<run()>, C<run_err()>, C<capture()>
and C<capture_err()> can now have arbitrary filehandle connections to
closures (via a sub-process), named files or filehandles.

=back

=head2 VERSION 1.04

Bug fix for scripts that fork (see F<t/04-fork.t>)

=head2 VERSION 1.03

=over

=item B<YAML config file support>

Do your C<getopt()> and C<YAML::Load()> in one pass!  See C<getconf()>
in the man page.

You can even include the default YAML configuration file in your POD
via Pod::Constants!  Soon to be documented and tested by the test
suite :).  But the daring can go put some YAML in a section called
"C<DEFAULT CONFIGURATION FILE>"

=item B<Quick and dirty timer functions>

New timer utility functions C<start_timer()>, C<show_delta()>,
C<show_elapsed()>

=item bugfix

C<barf()> now does not make your script exit if inside C<eval {}>; it
checks C<$^S> and re-throws the error instead.

=back

=head2 Historic releases

 Version 1.02 - Thu, 15 Apr 2004 12:24:16 +1200

  * Made barf actually barf :-}
  * Fixed bug with capture and -v - error "Warning: unable to close
    filehandle CHILD properly."
  * output from capture_err matches documentation

 Version 1.01 - Tue, 13 Apr 2004 10:26:27 +1200

  * Fixed version number input - now accepts $main::VERSION as per
    widespread convention
  * Added SEE ALSO section based on feedback from module-
    authors@perl.org

=cut
