=head1 NAME

Hash::Storage - Persistent Hash Storage Framework

MODULE IS IN A DEVELOPMENT STAGE. DO NOT USE IT YET.


=head1 SYNOPSIS

    my $st = Hash::Storage->new( 
        driver => [ OneFile => { serializer => 'JSON', file => '/tmp/t.json' } ] 
    );
    
    # Store hash by id
    $st->set( 'user1' => { name => 'Viktor', gender => 'M', age => '28' } );
    
    # Get hash by id
    my $user_data = $st->get('user1');
    
    # Delete hash by id
    $st->del('user1');
    

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Hash::Storage is a multipurpose storage for hash. You can consider Hash::Storage object as a collection of hashes. 
You can use it for storing users, sessions and a lot more data.  

Hash::Storage has pluggable architecture, therefore you can use different drivers or write you own.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Hash::Storage->new(driver => $DRIVER)

$DRIVER is an arrayref with two values:
the first is a driver name, the second is a hashref with options for driver.
    
    my $st = Hash::Storage->new( 
        driver => [ OneFile => { serializer => 'JSON', file => '/tmp/t.json' } ] 
    );

$DRIVER - also can be a Hash::Storage driver object
    
    my $drv = Hash::Storage::Driver::OneFile->new({ serializer => 'JSON', file => '/tmp/t.json' });
    my $st = Hash::Storage->new( driver => $drv );


=head2 $SELF->set($ID, \%HASH);

Saves hash

=head2 $SELF->get($ID);

Retrieves hash

=head2 $SELF->del($ID);

Deletes hash

=head2 $SELF->list();

returns array with hashrefs

=head2 $SELF->count();

returns number of hashes in a collection
 
=head1 AUTHOR

"koorchik", C<< <"koorchik at cpan.org"> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-hash-storage at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Hash-Storage>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Hash::Storage


You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker (report bugs here)

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Hash-Storage>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Hash-Storage>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Hash-Storage>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Hash-Storage/>

=back


=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS


=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2012 "koorchik".

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.


=cut