=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute - Base for PKCS #11 attributes (CKA)

=head1 SYNPOSIS

  package Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Class;
  use base qw(Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::CK_ULONG);
  use Crypt::PKCS11 qw(:constant);
  sub type () { CKA_CLASS }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the base module for all attribute in Crypt::PKCS11. Should not be used
directly, see L<Crypt::PKCS11::Attributes> for all available attributes.

=head1 BASE ATTRIBUTE VALUES

These are the modules that can be used as the base attribute value, for more
information see the individual modules man page.

=over 4

=item *

Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::AttributeArray

=item *

Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::ByteArray

=item *

Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::CK_BBOOL

=item *

Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::CK_BYTE

=item *

Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::CK_DATE

=item *

Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::CK_ULONG

=item *

Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::RFC2279string

=item *

Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::UlongArray

=item *

Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Value

=back

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item $attribute = Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute->new (...)

Return a new attribute object, if any arguments are passed while creating then
they are passed to $attribute->set(...) before returning. The object created is
a blessed hash reference.

=item $cka_type = $attribute->type

This sub must be overloaded!

Return the CKA type of the attribute.

=item $pValue = $attribute->pValue

Return the raw value stored within the attribute, since all attribute objects
are blessed hashes this will be $self->{pValue}.

=item $attribute = $attribute->set (...)

This sub must be overloaded!

Set the value of the attribute. Must croak on error and return itself ($self) on
success.

=item <...> = $attribute->get

This sub must be overloaded!

Return the value of the attribute or undef if no value is set. Can croak on
error.

=back

=head1 NOTE

Derived from the RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface (Cryptoki)

=head1 AUTHOR

Jerry Lundström <lundstrom.jerry@gmail.com>

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs at https://github.com/dotse/p5-Crypt-PKCS11/issues .

=head1 LICENSE

  Copyright (c) 2015 Jerry Lundström <lundstrom.jerry@gmail.com>
  Copyright (c) 2015 .SE (The Internet Infrastructure Foundation)
  All rights reserved.

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
  are met:
  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
  "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
  A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
  HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
  DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
  THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
  (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
