
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Crypt::PKCS11::CK_X9_42_DH1_DERIVE_PARAMS - Perl interface to PKCS #11 CK_X9_42_DH1_DERIVE_PARAMS structure

=head1 SYNPOSIS

  use Crypt::PKCS11::CK_X9_42_DH1_DERIVE_PARAMS;
  my $obj = Crypt::PKCS11::CK_X9_42_DH1_DERIVE_PARAMS->new;
  $obj->set...;
  $obj->get...;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the Perl interface for the C structure CK_X9_42_DH1_DERIVE_PARAMS in PKCS #11.
See PKCS #11 documentation for more information about the structure and what it
is used for.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item $obj = Crypt::PKCS11::CK_X9_42_DH1_DERIVE_PARAMS->new

Returns a new Crypt::PKCS11::CK_X9_42_DH1_DERIVE_PARAMS object.

=item $rv = $obj->get_kdf($kdf)

Retrieve the value B<kdf> from the structure into C<$kdf>.
Returns C<CKR_OK> on success otherwise a CKR describing the error.

=item $kdf = $obj->kdf

Returns the value B<kdf> from the structure or undef on error.

=item $rv = $obj->set_kdf($kdf)

Set the value B<kdf> in the structure.
Returns C<CKR_OK> on success otherwise a CKR describing the error.

=item $rv = $obj->get_pOtherInfo($pOtherInfo)

Retrieve the value B<pOtherInfo> from the structure into C<$pOtherInfo>.
Returns C<CKR_OK> on success otherwise a CKR describing the error.

=item $pOtherInfo = $obj->pOtherInfo

Returns the value B<pOtherInfo> from the structure or undef on error.

=item $rv = $obj->set_pOtherInfo($pOtherInfo)

Set the value B<pOtherInfo> in the structure.
Returns C<CKR_OK> on success otherwise a CKR describing the error.

=item $rv = $obj->get_pPublicData($pPublicData)

Retrieve the value B<pPublicData> from the structure into C<$pPublicData>.
Returns C<CKR_OK> on success otherwise a CKR describing the error.

=item $pPublicData = $obj->pPublicData

Returns the value B<pPublicData> from the structure or undef on error.

=item $rv = $obj->set_pPublicData($pPublicData)

Set the value B<pPublicData> in the structure.
Returns C<CKR_OK> on success otherwise a CKR describing the error.

=back

=head1 PRIVATE METHODS

These are the private methods used within the module and should not be used
elsewhere.

=over 4

=item $bytes = $obj->toBytes

Return the structure represented as bytes or undef on error.

=item $rv = $obj->fromBytes($bytes)

Sets the structure from a representation in bytes.
Returns C<CKR_OK> on success otherwise a CKR describing the error.

=back

=head1 NOTE

Derived from the RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface (Cryptoki)

=head1 AUTHOR

Jerry Lundström <lundstrom.jerry@gmail.com>

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs at https://github.com/dotse/p5-Crypt-PKCS11/issues .

=head1 LICENSE

  Copyright (c) 2015 Jerry Lundström <lundstrom.jerry@gmail.com>
  Copyright (c) 2015 .SE (The Internet Infrastructure Foundation)
  All rights reserved.

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
  are met:
  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
  "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
  A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
  HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
  DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
  THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
  (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
