=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::AnyDaemon - SOAP server based on Any::Daemon

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::AnyDaemon
   is a XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon

 XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::AnyDaemon
   is an Any::Daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #### have a look in the examples directory!
 use XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::AnyDaemon;
 use XML::Compile::SOAP11;
 use XML::Compile::SOAP::WSA;  # optional

 my $daemon  = XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::AnyDaemon->new;

 # daemon definitions from WSDL
 my $wsdl    = XML::Compile::WSDL11->new(...);
 $wsdl->importDefinitions(...); # more schemas
 $daemon->operationsFromWSDL($wsdl, callbacks => ...);

 # daemon definitions added manually (when no WSDL)
 my $soap11  = XML::Compile::SOAP11::Server->new(schemas => $wsdl->schemas);
 my $handler = $soap11->compileHandler(...);
 $daemon->addHandler('getInfo', $soap11, $handler);

 # see what is defined:
 $daemon->printIndex;

 # finally, run the server.  This never returns.
 $daemon->run(@daemon_options);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module handles the exchange of SOAP messages over HTTP with
Any::Daemon as daemon implementation. It is a simple pre-forked
daemon, much easier than the Net::Server implementations.

We use HTTP::Daemon as HTTP-connection implementation. The
HTTP::Request and HTTP::Response objects (provided
by C<HTTP-Message>) are handled via functions provided by
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::LWPutil|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::LWPutil>.

This abstraction level of the object (code in this pm file) is not
concerned with parsing or composing XML, but only worries about the
HTTP transport specifics of SOAP messages.  The processing of the SOAP
message is handled by the L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon> base-class.

The server is as flexible as possible: accept M-POST (HTTP Extension
Framework) and POST (standard HTTP) for any message.  It can be used
for any SOAP1.1 and SOAP1.2 mixture.  Although SOAP1.2 itself is
not implemented yet.

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"METHODS">.
 
=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Constructors">.
 
=over 4

=item XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::AnyDaemon-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

Create the server handler, which extends some class which implements
a Net::Server daemon.

As %options, you can pass everything accepted by Any::Daemon subroutine new,
like C<pid_file>, C<user>, C<group>, and C<workdir>,

 -Option            --Defined in                --Default
  accept_slow_select  XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon  <true>
  output_charset      XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon  'UTF-8'
  soap_action_input   XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon  {}
  wsa_action_input    XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon  {}
  wsa_action_output   XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon  {}

=over 2

=item accept_slow_select => BOOLEAN

=item output_charset => STRING

=item soap_action_input => HASH|ARRAY

=item wsa_action_input => HASH|ARRAY

=item wsa_action_output => HASH|ARRAY

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

Extends L<"Attributes" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Attributes">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addSoapAction>(HASH|PAIRS)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Attributes">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addWsaTable>( <'INPUT'|'OUTPUT'>, [HASH|PAIRS] )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Attributes">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<outputCharset>()

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Attributes">

=back

=head2 Running the server

Extends L<"Running the server" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Running the server">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<process>($client, $xmlin, $request, $action)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Running the server">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<run>(%options)

 -Option         --Default
  background       <true>
  child_init       undef
  client_maxreq    100
  client_reqbonus  0
  client_timeout   30
  host             undef
  listen           SOMAXCONN
  max_childs       10
  port             undef
  postprocess      undef
  server_name      undef
  socket           undef

=over 2

=item background => BOOLEAN

=item child_init => CODE

This CODE reference will get called by each child which gets started,
before the "accept" waiting starts.  Ideal moment to start your
database-connection.

=item client_maxreq => NUMBER

Maximum number of requests per connection.

=item client_reqbonus => SECONDS

Time to add to the timeout as bonus per handled client request. Fast
clients get more time over slow clients, more time to reach their
maximum number of requests.

=item client_timeout => SECONDS

The maximum time a connection may exist, before being terminated.

=item host => STRING

Ignored when a socket is provided, otherwise required.

=item listen => INTEGER

Ignored when a socket is provided.

=item max_childs => INTEGER

=item port => INTEGER

Ignored when a socket is provided, otherwise required.

=item postprocess => CODE

See the section about this option in the DETAILS chapter of the
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::LWPutil|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::LWPutil> manual-page.

=item server_name => STRING

=item socket => SOCKET

Pass your own socket, in stead of having one created for you. The SOCKET
must be an C<IO::Socket::INET> (or compatible like IO::Socket::SSL and
IO::Socket::IP)

=back

=back

=head2 Preparations

Extends L<"Preparations" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Preparations">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addHandler>($name, $soap, CODE)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Preparations">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<operationsFromWSDL>($wsdl, %options)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Preparations">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<setWsdlResponse>( $filename, [$filetype] )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Preparations">

=back

=head2 Helpers

Extends L<"Helpers" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Helpers">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<faultInvalidXML>($error)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Helpers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<faultNotSoapMessage>($nodetype)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Helpers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<faultUnsupportedSoapVersion>($env_ns)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Helpers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<handlers>( <'SOAP11'|'SOAP12'|$soap> )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Helpers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<printIndex>( [$fh] )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Helpers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<soapVersions>()

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Helpers">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

Extends L<"DETAILS" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"DETAILS">.
 
=head2 Operation handlers

Extends L<"Operation handlers" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Operation handlers">.
 
=head2 Returning errors

Extends L<"Returning errors" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Returning errors">.
 
=head2 AnyDaemon with SSL

First, create certificates and let them be signed by a CA (or yourself)
See F<http://devsec.org/info/ssl-cert.html> to understand this.

  # generate secret private key
  openssl genrsa -out privkey.pem 1024

  # create a "certification request" (CSR)
  openssl req -new -key privkey.pem -out certreq.csr

  # send the CSR to the Certification Authority or self-sign:
  openssl x509 -req -days 3650 -in certreq.csr -signkey privkey.pem -out newcert.pem

  # publish server certificate
  ( openssl x509 -in newcert.pem; cat privkey.pem ) > server.pem
  ln -s server.pem `openssl x509 -hash -noout -in server.pem`.0   # dot-zero

Assuming that the certificates are in 'certs/', the program looks like this:

  use Log::Report;
  use XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::AnyDaemon;
  use XML::Compile::WSDL11;
  use IO::Socket::SSL       'SSL_VERIFY_NONE';
  use IO::Socket            'SOMAXCONN';

  my $daemon = XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::AnyDaemon->new;
  my $wsdl   = XML::Compile::WSDL11->new($wsdl);

  my %handlers = ();
  $daemon->operationsFromWSDL($wsdl, callbacks => \%handlers);

  my $socket = IO::Socket::SSL->new
   ( LocalHost  => 'localhost'
   , LocalPort  => 4444
   , Listen     => SOMAXCONN
   , Reuse      => 1
   , SSL_server => 1
   , SSL_verify_mode => SSL_VERIFY_NONE
   , SSL_key_file    => 'certs/privkey.pem'
   , SSL_cert_file   => 'certs/server.pem'
   ) or error __x"cannot create socket at {interface}: {err}"
         , interface => "$host:$port"
         , err => IO::Socket::SSL::errstr();

  $daemon->run
   ( name       => basename($0)
   , max_childs => 1
   , socket     => $socket
   , child_init => \&for_instance_connect_to_db
   )

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-SOAP-Daemon distribution version 3.14,
built on May 11, 2018. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2018 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

