=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::CGI - CGI based server

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::CGI
   is a XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #### have a look in the examples directory!
 use XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::CGI;
 my $daemon = XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::CGI->new;

 # initialize definitions from WSDL
 my $wsdl    = XML::Compile::WSDL11->new(...);
 $wsdl->importDefinitions(...); # more schemas
 $daemon->operationsFromWSDL($wsdl, callbacks => ...);

 # per connected client
 my $query = CGI->new;
 $daemon->runCgiRequest(query => $query);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module handles the exchange of SOAP messages via Apache, using
mod_perl and the popular Perl module CGI.  Have a look at the
F<examples/> directory, contained in the C<XML-Compile-SOAP-Daemon>
distribution.

This abstraction level of the object (code in this pm file) is not
concerned with parsing or composing XML, but only worries about the
HTTP transport specifics of SOAP messages.

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"METHODS">.
 
=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Constructors">.
 
=over 4

=item XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::CGI-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option            --Defined in                --Default
  accept_slow_select  XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon  <true>
  output_charset      XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon  'UTF-8'
  soap_action_input   XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon  {}
  wsa_action_input    XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon  {}
  wsa_action_output   XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon  {}

=over 2

=item accept_slow_select => BOOLEAN

=item output_charset => STRING

=item soap_action_input => HASH|ARRAY

=item wsa_action_input => HASH|ARRAY

=item wsa_action_output => HASH|ARRAY

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

Extends L<"Attributes" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Attributes">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addSoapAction>(HASH|PAIRS)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Attributes">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addWsaTable>( <'INPUT'|'OUTPUT'>, [HASH|PAIRS] )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Attributes">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<outputCharset>()

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Attributes">

=back

=head2 Running the server

Extends L<"Running the server" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Running the server">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<process>(%options)

Process the content of a single message. Not to be called directly.

 -Option--Default
  nph     <true>

=over 2

=item nph => BOOLEAN

For FCGI, you probably need to set this to a false value.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<run>(%options)

Used by L<runCgiRequest()|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon::CGI/"Running the server"> to process a connection. Not to be called
directly.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<runCgiRequest>(%options)

 -Option     --Default
  postprocess  undef
  query        <created internally>

=over 2

=item postprocess => CODE

When defined, the CODE will get called with a HASH (containing %options
and other compile information), a HASH of headers (which you may change),
the HTTP return code, and a reference to the message body (which may be
changed as well).

Be warned that the message body must be considered as bytes, so not
as Latin1 or utf-8 string.  You may wish to add or remove bytes. The
Content-Length will be added to the headers after the call.

=item query => <CGI object>

=back

=back

=head2 Preparations

Extends L<"Preparations" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Preparations">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addHandler>($name, $soap, CODE)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Preparations">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<operationsFromWSDL>($wsdl, %options)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Preparations">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<setWsdlResponse>( $filename, [$filetype] )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Preparations">

=back

=head2 Helpers

Extends L<"Helpers" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Helpers">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<faultInvalidXML>($error)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Helpers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<faultNotSoapMessage>($nodetype)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Helpers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<faultUnsupportedSoapVersion>($env_ns)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Helpers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<handlers>( <'SOAP11'|'SOAP12'|$soap> )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Helpers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<printIndex>( [$fh] )

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Helpers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<soapVersions>()

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Helpers">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

Extends L<"DETAILS" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"DETAILS">.
 
=head2 Operation handlers

Extends L<"Operation handlers" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Operation handlers">.
 
=head2 Returning errors

Extends L<"Returning errors" in XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon/"Returning errors">.
 
=head2 How to use the CGI module

The code and documentation for this module was contributed by Patrick
Powell in December 2010. Both have seen major changes since.

Go to the F<examples/mod_perl/> directory which is included in
the distribution of this module, L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon|XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon>.
There you find a README describing the process.

=head2 Configuring Apache

Your virtual host may need something like this:

    Options     Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
    PerlHandler ModPerl::Registry
    PerlOptions -ParseHeaders
    AddHandler  perl-script .cgi
    Options     +ExecCGI
    Order       allow,deny
    Allow       from all

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-SOAP-Daemon distribution version 3.12,
built on May 13, 2016. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile> .
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2016 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

