# WebDyne.pm(3pm) #

# NAME #

WebDyne - Dynamic Perl web application framework with template compilation and modular design. Designed to be used via Plack/Starman/PSGI or Apache mod_perl web servers, but supports
    standalone HTML output

# SYNOPSIS #

SYNOPSIS

```perl
#  Basic usage
#
use WebDyne qw(html html_sr);

# Render a .psp file to HTML (returns a string)
#
my $html = html('app.psp', { param1 => 'value', param2 => 'value' });

# Render a .psp file to HTML (returns a scalar ref)
#
my $html_ref = html_sr('app.psp', { param1 => 'value', param2 => 'value' });

# With additional options
#
my $html = html('template.psp', { outfile => $fh });
    
```

# DESCRIPTION #

*WebDyne*  is a high-performance, dynamic Perl web application framework. It provides method to integrate Perl code in HTML files with dynamic compilation, caching, and a modular architecture. WebDyne is designed for flexibility and performance, supporting both CGI and persistent environments \(mod_perl, PSGI). The core interface for scripts is via the html  and  html_sr  functions, which render \.psp templates to HTML.

WebDyne can be used directly from scripts or as a handler in persistent environments. It supports advanced features such as block rendering, custom handlers, caching, and integration with Apache via mod_perl, and PSGI servers such as Plack and Starman.

Comprehensive documentation around the construction and options within \.psp files, and the general usage of WebDyne within an Apache or PSGI server are available in the doc directory of the Perl module or from the  [Github repository](https://github.com/aspeer/WebDyne) .

The simplest representation of a \.psp file that can be rendered is as follows. This example uses several syntactic shortcuts for brevity that are not standard HTML, however the output generated by WebDyne is alway standards compliant HTML.

```
<start_html>
The current server time is: <? localtime() ?>
```

 If this example is saved as the filename  `app.psp`  it can be rendered to HTML from the command line utility  `wdrender`  as follows:

    $ wdrender app.psp
     
    <!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><title>Untitled Document</title><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>
    <body><p>The current server time is: Sat Sep 20 17:17:13 2025</p></body></html>

# METHODS #

* **html($filename, \%options, ...)**

    Renders a \.psp file to HTML and returns the result as a string. This is a convenience wrapper around  html_sr .

    *Arguments:* 

* *$filename*  \- Path to the \.psp template file.

* *\%options*  \- Hashref or hash of options and parameters to pass to the template.

    *Options:* 

* *handler*  \- Specify a custom handler class \(defaults to WebDyne).

* *outfile*  \- Filehandle to write output to \(optional).

* **html_sr($filename, \%options, ...)**

    Renders a \.psp file to HTML and returns a scalar reference to the result. This is the core rendering function for scripts.

    *Arguments and options are as for html.*

* **handler($r, \%params)**

    Main request handler for mod_perl and PSGI environments. Not typically used directly in scripts.

# OPTIONS #

The following options can be passed to  html  and  html_sr :  

* **filename**

    application \.psp filename to render \(defaults to first argument).

* **handler**

    Custom handler class to use for rendering. Defaults to the inbuilt WebDyne handler

* **outfile**

    File handle to write output to \(optional).

# SEE ALSO #

[Plack](https://metacpan.org/pod/Plack) [Catalyst](https://metacpan.org/pod/Catalyst) [Dancer2](https://metacpan.org/pod/Dancer2) [Mojolicious](https://metacpan.org/pod/Mojolicious)

# AUTHOR #

Andrew Speer &lt;andrew.speer@isolutions.com.au&gt; and contributors.

# LICENSE #

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself. See  [http://dev.perl.org/licenses/](http://dev.perl.org/licenses/) .