=head1 NAME

arcx - ARCv2 client command line interface 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This file is a basic command line interface for the ARCv2.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

The command line interface arcx:

=over 4

=item arcx 

Connect to the default host, on the default port and start the interactive 
ARC-shell (Term::ReadLine).

=item arcx -h arcserver -p 1234 vos release scripts

Connection arcserver:1234 and run the ARCv2 command "vos" with the
parameters "release scripts"

=item cat /etc/passwd | arcx put /default/etc/passwd

Pipe the content of /etc/passwd through the encrypted connection and let
the server write the content to /default/etc/passwd.

=item arcx get /default/etc/passwd > /etc/passwd

Read the /default/etc/passwd on the server machine and write it locally
to /etc/passwd.

=back

=head1 USAGE

As usual a command line interface has some parameters to influence the behaviour.

The scheme looks like this:

arcx [-h <hostname>] [-p <port>] [-l <loglevel] [-L <logdestination] [-n] [-v] [-S <service>] [-F -f <history>] [-u|-U <username>] [-a|-A <authname>] [-w|-W <password>] [-s <mech>] [-t <timeout in sec>] [-r <string>] [command [command-arguments]]

=head2 Parameter

=over 4

=item -h <hostname>

The hostname, where the ARCv2 server is running. If no -h option is given, arcx will use the one chosen at compile time ($Arc::DefaultHost).

=item -p <port>

The port, where the ARCv2 server is listening. If no -p option is given, arcx will use the one given at compile time ($Arc::DefaultPort).

=item -L <logdestination>

This option defines the log output destination. Possible values are "stderr" and "syslog". Default is "syslog". -L does not refer to the -v option and arcx.

=item -l <loglevel>

This option specifies the logging level of ARCv2. Default is 5, whereas 7 is the highest (DEBUG) and 1 is the lowest.

=item -v

The verbose option. If this option is set, arcx is verbose in its context. This option does not influence the ARCv2 object. Use -l and -L for it.

=item -n

Do nothing, only try to authenticate.

=item -F

Do not save the commands typed in the interactive mode in the history file. 

=item -f <history>

Use the specified file to save command history.

=item -S <service>

This option sets the service name for SASL authentication. Default is "arc". This option has to be change on the server as well.

=item -u

Ask for username and use it for authentication.

=item -U <username>

Use the <username> for authentication.

=item -a

Ask for a authorization name.

=item -A <authname>

Use the <authname> for authorisation.

=item -w

Ask for a password (Only if SASL needs one).

=item -W <password>

Use the <password> for authentication. (Only if an appropriate mechanism is used. (eg. PLAIN)).

=item -s <mechanism>

For authentication use the given <mechanism>. (Default: let the server decide.)

=item -t <timeout>

Timeout in seconds to wait for data in control and command connection.

=item -r <string>

<string> is going to be written to the established command connection, when command is used. (Do not wait for user input on STDIN).

eg.: arcx -r "data" test 
results in "at".

=item command

Run this ARCv2 command. Run "help" to see, which commands are available.

=item command-arguments

Some ARCv2 command can handle arguments. They should go here.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Arc>, L<Arc::Command>, L<Arc::Connection>, 
L<Arc::Connection::Server>, L<Arc::Connection::Client>,
L<arcx>, L<arcxd>, L<Authen::SASL>, L<Authen::SASL::Cyrus>
L<Net::Server::PreFork>

=head1 AUTHOR

 Patrick Boettcher <patrick.boettcher@desy.de>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2003-5 Patrick Boettcher <patrick.boettcher@desy.de> and others.
All rights reserved.
Zeuthen, Germany, (old) Europe

 This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

 Special thanks go to:
DESY Zeuthen, in particular:

- Wolfgang Friebel for bleeding edge testing and heavy bug reporting (and the idea of reimplementing ARC).

- Waltraut Niepraschk and Andreas Haupt for their help and support during the development. 

=cut
