=pod

=head1 NAME

Linux::Sysfs::Attribute - sysfs attributes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    my $attr = Linux::Sysfs::Attributes->open($path);

    if ($attr->can_read) {
        $attr->read;
        printf "%s: %s\n", $attr->name, $attr->value;
    }

    if ($attr->can_write) {
        printf "Writing %s to %s at %s\n",
               $new_value, $attr->name, $attr->path;
        $attr->write($new_value);
    }

    $attr->close;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A file in sysfs represents a device or driver attribute Attributes can be read
only, write only, or read and write. File data can be ASCII and binary.

=head1 METHODS

=over

=item B<open>

    my $attr = Linux::Sysfs::Attribute->open($path);

Opens up a file in sysfs and creates a Linux::Sysfs::Attribute instance. File
isn't read with this function. C<$path> is the File/Attribute's path. Returns a
Linux::Sysfs::Attribute object on success or undef on failure.

=item B<close>

    $attr->close;

Cleans up and closes sysfs_attribute structure.

=item B<read>

    $attr->read or die 'read failed';

Reads the supplied attribute. Since the maximum transfer from a sysfs attribute
is a pagesize, function reads in up to a page from the file and stores it in
Linux::Sysfs::Attribute object to be retrieved with C<$attr-E<gt>value>.
Returns something true on success or something false on failure.

=item B<write>

    $attr->write($value) or die 'write failed';

Writes to the supplied attribute. Function validates if the given attribute is
writable, and writes the new value to the attribute. The user needs to supply
the C<$value> to be written. Returns something true on success or something
false on failure.

=item B<value>

    my $value = $attr->value;

Returns the value of the attribute. You need to call B<read()> or B<write()>
first to use this method.

=item B<can_read>

	my $can_read = $attr->can_read;

Returns something true if the attribute is readable, false otherwise.

=item B<can_write>

	my $can_write = $attr->can_write;

Returns something true if the attribute is writable, false otherwise.

=item B<name>

	my $name = $attr->name;

Returns the attributes name.

=item B<path>

    my $path = $attr->path;

The path returned by this method represents the file/attribute's full path.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Florian Ragwitz E<lt>rafl@debian.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2006 Florian Ragwitz, all rights reserved.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Library General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307
USA.

=cut
