=pod

=head1 NAME

Linux::Sysfs::Bus - sysfs buses

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	my $bus = Linux::Sysfs::Bus->open('pci');

	my @devices = $bus->get_devices;
	my @drivers = $bus->get_drivers;

	$bus->close;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The library provides functions for viewing buses represented in sysfs.

=head1 METHODS

=over

=item B<open>

	my $bus = Linux::Sysfs::Bus->open($name);

Opens up one of the buses represented in sysfs in the /sys/bus directory.
C<$name> is the name of the bus to open (e.g. "pci"). It returns a
Linux::Sysfs::Bus instance on success or undef on failure.

=item B<close>

	$bus->close;

Closes up the sysfs_bus structure including its devices, and drivers and the
list of attributes.

=item B<get_devices>

	my @devices = $bus->get_devices;

Returns a list of Linux::Sysfs::Device instances that are registered with this
bus.

=item B<get_drivers>

	my @drivers = $bus->get_drivers;

Returns a list of Linux::Sysfs::Driver instances that are registered with this
bus.

=item B<get_device>

	my $device = $bus->get_device($id);

Looks for a device with the given C<$id> on this bus. On success, it returns a
Linux::Sysfs::Device instance, otherwise undef.

=item B<get_driver>

	my $driver = $bus->get_driver($name);

Looks for a driver with the given C<$name> on this bus. On success, it returns
a Linux::Sysfs::Driver instance, otherwise undef.

=item B<name>

	my $name = $bus->name;

Returns the bus' name.

=item B<path>

	my $path = $attr->path;

Returns the full path to the bus' file in sysfs.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Florian Ragwitz E<lt>rafl@debian.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2006 Florian Ragwitz, all rights reserved.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Library General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307
USA.

=cut
