=pod

=head1 NAME

Linux::Sysfs::Class - sysfs classes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    my $class = Linux::Sysfs::Class->open('net');
    my @devices = $class->get_devices;
    $class->close;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Libsysfs provides functions to open sysfs classes.

=head1 METHODS

=over

=item B<open>

    my $class = Linux::Sysfs::Class->open($name);

Opens up one the class represented by C<$name> in sysfs in the /sys/class
directory.  On success, it returns a Linux::Sysfs::Class instance, otherwise
undef.

=item B<close>

    $class->close;

Closes up the Linux::Sysfs::Class instance including its class devices.

=item B<get_device>

    my $classdev = $class->get_device($name);

Looks for a device with C<$name> in this class. Returns a
Linux::Sysfs::ClassDevice on success or undef on failure.

=item B<get_devices>

    my @classdevs = $class->get_devices;

Returns a list of Linux::Sysfs::ClassDevice instances for the given class.

=item B<name>

    my $name = $class->name;

Returns the class' name.

=item B<path>

    my $path = $class->path;

Returns the full path to the class in sysfs.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Florian Ragwitz E<lt>rafl@debian.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2006 Florian Ragwitz, all rights reserved.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Library General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307
USA.

=cut
