=head1 NAME

WWW::SourceForge - Interfaces to the SourceForge data API

=head1 SYNOPSIS

The WWW::SourceForge family of modules are intended to implement the API
documented at https://sourceforge.net/p/forge/documentation/API/

While this isn't an "official" SourceForge project, I am a SourceForge
employee, and maintain these as part of my job. I also use these modules as part
of my daily tasks, and so I have an interest in making them work well.

These are part of a larger package of tools
(https://sourceforge.net/projects/sfprojecttools/) including
greasemonkey scripts, and hopefully some day other implementations of
the API (PHP and Python would be a winner).

=head1 USAGE

=head2 WWW::SourceForge::User

 Usage: 
 
    my $user = new WWW::SourceForge::User( id => 1234 );
    my $user2 = new WWW::SourceForge::User( username => 'rbowen' );
    my @projects = $user->projects(); # WWW::SourceForge::Project objects

=head2 WWW::SourceForge::Project

 Usage: 
 
    my $proj = new WWW::SourceForge::Project( id => 1234 );
    my $proj2 = new WWW::SourceForge::Project( name => 'flightics' );

    my @admins = $proj->admins(); # WWW::SourceForge::User objects
    my @developers = $proj->developers(); # Ditto

    # WARNING: This method is probably going to change in the future to
    # return more detailed download data. Check docs frequently.
    my $download_count = $proj->downloads(
        start_date => '2012-07-01',
        end_date   => '2012-07-25'
    );

    # WARNING: This method is probably going to change in the future so
    # that we can return actual File or Release objects. Still to be
    # decided. Check docs frequently.
    my @files = $proj->files();
    my $date_string = $proj->latest_release();

=head2 WWW::SourceForge::Release (future?)

=head1 AUTHOR

    Rich Bowen
    CPAN ID: RBOW
    SourceForge Community Manager
    rbowen@apache.org

=head1 SOURCE

The source is in Git on SourceForge: https://sourceforge.net/p/sfprojecttools/code/
Patches make me happy.

=head1 SUPPORT

https://sourceforge.net/p/sfprojecttools/tickets/

=head1 HISTORY

A WWW::SourceForge module was originally developed by Kang-min Liu
(gugod@gugod.org), which utilized WWW::Mechanize to retrieve project
information from SourceForge project pages. With the many changes to the
SourceForge website, that module gradually fell out of usefulness. With
the new(ish) SourceForge data API, we have a means of accessing this
data without having to parse HTML. But many thanks to Kang-min Liu for
his early effort, and for his cooperation with me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

=cut
