
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

REVISION HISTORY - Set::Object

=head1 1.38, 2017-11-11

=over

=item *

Add test_cover and release targets

=back

=head1 1.37, 2017-11-11

=over

=item *

Test fixes for -Ddefault_inc_excludes_dot, RT #120540

=item *

Skip failing threads test <= 5.10.0

=item *

Add CI hooks

=back

=head1 1.36, 2017-11-10

=over

=item *

Davem fixed get-magic for the new arguments, fixing
NetHack-Item L<[perl #132152]|https://rt.perl.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=132152>.
See L<[cpan #123582]|https://rt.cpan.org/Ticket/Display.html?id=123582>

=item *

Stabilize F<t/misc/kwalitee.t> test

=back

=head1 1.35, 2015-06-10

=over

=item *

Change to Artistic License 2.0

=item *

Add more misc tests. Add use strict to Set::Object::Weak

=back

=head1 1.34, 2013-12-25

=over

=item *

Make synopsis examples work (tadzik)

=back

=head1 1.33, 2013-12-13

=over

=item *

Fix RT #90070: Improve pod for sorted @$set in list context vs 
unsorted ->elements (ftobin)

=item *

Fix RT #87658: Typo in pod (dsteinbrunner)

=back

=head1 1.32, 2013-05-15 rurban (released 2013-12-13)

=over

=item *

Reverts Changes.pod patch RT#85244 as it conflicts with the Set::Object pod on metacpan.
Also RT #85246

=back

=head1 1.31, 2013-05-13 rurban

=over

=item *

Changes.pod patch by Gregor Hermann, debian perl group - RT#85244

=back

=head1 1.30, 2013-04-04 rurban (new maintainer)

=over

=item *

Fixes for 5.16 and newer - RT#83426
Sort by member names, not the refs.
Fix wrong weak test with globals. Changed to lexicals and use strict/warnings.

=item *

Fix F<t/misc/segfault.t>, check SvMAGICAL before doing C<mg_find>

=item *

Fixed wrong C format types in warnings and C<SET_OBJECT_MAGIC_backref>.
Added PREREQ_PMs, make L<Test::LeakTrace> and L<Moose> an optional dependency
for F<t/misc/more_leaks.t>

=item *

Improve thread-safety (forbid concurrent writes), but still dealing with 
Attempt to free non-existent shared string and 
Unbalanced string table refcount: (1) for "8" during global destruction.
- RT #22760

=item *

Add missing typemap entry const char * for 5.6

=back

=head1 1.29, 13 Feb 2013

=over

=item *

Fixed a typo in a function which really shouldn't exist - RT#79653

=item *

Marked a couple of functions as deprecated for removal (including the
above function).

=item *

Fixed the magic cleanup code to use the appropriate macro/function to
clean up the magic list instead of trying to do it itself.
Unsurprisingly, fixes a memory leak.  (RT#69967, also RT#67289)

=back

=head1 1.28, 22 Jul 2010

=over

=item *

Fixed a portability concern for some platforms' C compilers (that do
not support //-style comments) - RT#52690

=item *

Valid SIGNATURE file - RT#50492

=back

=head1 1.27, 15 Jan 2009

=over

=item *

Fix a typo that affected building against Perls with debugging enabled.

=item *

A minor #define refactor (Yuval).

=item *

Squash some long-standing warnings I had been ignoring for ages and
Havard Eidnes prompted me to fix by logging an RT ticket for it.

=item *

Squash some global clean-up warnings.

=back

=head1 1.26, 13 Oct 2008

=over

=item *

Methods which destroyed C<$@> due to internal use of C<eval> now
properly call C<local($@)> (Yuval)

=item *

Fix a leak and a corner case with weak set magic, and squash some
warnings (Yuval)

=item *

Define behaviour when dealing with return values from operations on
weak sets.  No longer hard-coded "Set::Object" - may affect
Set::Object sub-classes (Sam).

=item *

(post-release changelog entry) related to the previous change,
Set::Object::Weak::set did not use to shift the invocant off the
stack, which caused result sets to have the inserted sets as members.
It now does, fixing this bug.

=back

=head1 1.25, 22 Jul 2008

=over

=item *

Portability: support Perls before 5.7.3, and make this dependency
explicit in the F<Makefile.PL>

=back

=head1 1.24, 20 Jul 2008

=over

=item *

Remove threads test which had inadvertantly slipped into the MANIFEST
from source control, and add comprehensive documentation on the state
of thread support in this module.

=item *

Correct other silly MANIFEST mistakes.

=back

=head1 1.23, 18 Jul 2008

=over

=item *

Make behaviour when dealing with items which were C<undef> defined.
Previously it might segfault (or Bus Error on Mac OS X) on some
operations and Perl versions, or result in an empty string being
inserted.

=item *

Fix a minor compile problem on IRIX, reported by David Cantrell.

=back

=head1 1.22, 8 Oct 2007

=over

=item *

Sub-classing interface added; it is now much easier to make
L<Set::Object> subclasses that return objects other than more
L<Set::Object>s when subclassing.  From Brían Mach Aon Innéirghthe.

=back

=head1 1.21, 17 Feb 2007

=over

=item *

Fix false negative when Test::Pod::Coverage isn't installed.  Reported
by Anna Bernathova of SuSE.

=back

=head1 1.20, 16 Feb 2007

=over

=item *

The C<-E<gt>compare> function was returning "disjoint" for empty sets.
RT#24965.  (Nigel Metheringham)

=item *

Document lots of methods that were previously not documented.

=item *

Fix C<Set::Object::Weak::set()>.  It was not passing its arguments to
C<Set::Object::Weak-E<gt>new()>, which was very broken.

=back

=head1 1.19, 23 Jan 2007

=over

=item *

remove bogus inclusions of Data::Dumper and Devel::Peek

=item *

New class C<Set::Object::Weak>, which all weak sets should get
re-blessed into when you call C<-E<gt>weaken>.  Also added alternative
methods of constructing weak sets.

=item *

Fix a memory leak with scalar members (the internal hash used to store
the items was never being freed).  RT#24508.

=back

=head1 1.18, 14 Sep 2006

=over

=item *

We could only build on gcc due to the use of variadic macros.
use C<#ifdef> to hide this GCC-specific extension (used only for
debugging) from non-GCC compilers.

=item *

Add note to man page on compatibility of C<Storable> serializations of
C<Set::Object>s between revisions.

=back

=head1 1.17, 1 Aug 2006

=over

=item *

fix compile problem affecting some platforms

=back

=head1 1.16, 18 Jul 2006

=over

=item *

weak reference support

=back

=head1 1.15, 21 Jun 2006

=over

=item *

Dumping sets with scalars in them via L<Storable> now works.

=back

=head1 1.14

=over

=item *

Fix build problem on Win32 (thanks Steffen Goeldner)

=back

=head1 1.13

=over

=item *

Fix F<Makefile.PL> so this F<Changes.pod> is not delivered as
C<Set::Changes> :-}

=item *

Restore compatibility with 5.6.0

=item *

Remove some compile-time warnings, please let me know if this version
does not build on any platform!

=back

=head1 1.12, 30 Aug 2005

=over

=item *

added patch from Sergey Skvortsov for backwards compatibility with
Perl versions before 5.8 (include >100k F<ppport.h>!)

=item *

removed 'C<set()>' constructor from default export list, as its name
conflicts with too many other modules.

=back

=head1 1.11, 27 Apr 2005

=over

=item *

removed debugging C<&_> func (was causing strange errors on 5.9.1)

=cut

=back

=head1 1.10, 2 Apr 2005


=over

=item *

added 'C<set()>' constructor and use-as-array-ref interface

=back

=head1 1.09, 26 Mar 2005

=over

=item *

added 'bool' overload operator to C<Set::Object>.  For backwards
compatibility, always returns true.

=back

=head2 1.08_02, 14 Jan 2005

=over

=item *

Cutting out the "Universe" representation; this module gives plain
sets only.

=item *

documentation fixes

=back

=head2 1.08_01, 12 Jan 2005

=over

=item *

First attempt at adding support for scalars.  This version tries to
work as closely to C<Set::Scalar> as possible.

This approach will not be continued unless there are a lot of requests
for it to be implemented.  I think it's overly complicated, and not
what people expect when they want a Set.

=back

=head1 1.08, 14 Oct 2004

=over

=item *

another segfault bites the dust; this time, avoids a segfault when
taking a difference between sets of exactly 31 and 0 size.  Same root
fault as the previous bug, this time I have a test case for it, too.

=back

=head1 1.07, 16 Aug 2004

=over

=item *

yet another segfault fix, this time due to incorrect use of PUSHs vs
XPUSHs.  There is no test case for this bug unfortunately.

=back

=head1 1.06, 1 May 2004

=over

=item *

Fixed segfault when attempting to remove items from an empty set (fix
from Richard Sterling Cox)

=back

=head1 1.05, 5 Jan 2004

=over

=item *

some segfault fixes with Storable and Perl 5.6.1 (Perl 5.8.1 should be
OK)

=back

=head1 1.04, 3 Aug 2003

=over

=item *

added various functions similar to some found in Scalar::Util, but
with an extra one that performs a function that lays some groundwork
for L<Container::Object> (C<ish_int>).

Some of these functions were in the XS code anyway, and they are
extremely small, so I didn't see a problem with duplicating them -
saves an extra dependency.  Plus, Graham Barr won't let me put
C<ish_int> or C<is_key> in his module.

Knowing that they are available will also assist in fixing some longer
standing bugs in Tangram (eg, using C<$obj + 0> to get a unique ID
when C<refaddr($obj)> would be better)

=item *

lots more input marshalling; if you ever end up doing funny things to
a C<Set::Object>, then at least now you'll get a clearer error
message.

=item *

more tests; L<Devel::Cover> test coverage now at 91% (stmt), 67% (branch)

=item *

erroneously putting scalars into C<Set::Object>s now no longer dumps
core.

=item *

serialisation of C<Set::Object> objects is now possible via the
L<Storable> module (L<Data::Dumper> still does the wrong thing, but
there is nothing I can do about that).

=back

=head1 1.03, 24 Jan 2003

=over

=item *

fixed overload related bug

=back

=head1 HISTORIC RELEASES

From original F<Changes> file.

 Revision history for Perl extension Set::Object.
 
 0.01  Sat Jun  6 13:36:56 1998
	 - original version; created by h2xs 1.18
 
 0.02  Sun Jul  12 1998
	 - fixed refcount bug that leaked object when hash was
           reorganized
	 - ensured compatibility with Perl 5.004_71
 
 1.00 mid-99
	 - fixed some bug (related to subsets?)
	 - first mature release
 
 1.01 8 Nov 1999
	 - no longer use Perl arrays internally, now compatible with
           Perl 5.005_62
 
 1.02 8 May 08 2000
	 - fixed bug that miscomputed new bucket while reindexing

=cut

