=head1 NAME

Mad::Mapper::Guides::HasMany - "Has many" relationship

=head1 OVERVIEW

This guide will show how to define and use a "has many" relationship.

=head1 GUIDE

=head2 Define a relationship

  package MyApp::Model::User;
  use Mad::Mapper -base;

  # define a primary key
  pk id => undef;

  # define a relationship
  has_many groups => "MyApp::Model::Group", "id_user";

The code above describes that the "id_user" column in the "groups"
table should reference back to the "id" (primary key) column in
the "users" table.

=head2 Automatically defined methods

The "groups" relationship defined above will generate two methods:
C<groups()> and C<add_group()>. The first is to get all the group
rows and the latter is to add a new group row.

=head2 Usage

  my $user = MyApp::Model::User->new(db => $pg->db, id => 42);

Need to create a C<$user> object first. After that we can retrieve
groups and/or add groups.

  # sync
  my $groups = $user->groups;

  # async
  Mojo::IOLoop->delay(
    sub {
      my ($delay) = @_;
      $self->groups($delay->begin);
    },
    sub {
      my ($delay, $err, $groups) = @_;
    },
  );

C<$groups> is a L<Mojo::Collection> of C<MyApp::Model::Group> objects.

  # add_group() is a sync method
  $group = $self->add_group(\%constructor_args);
  
  # save() can be called sync and async.
  $group->save;

C<add_group> will just create a new C<MyApp::Model::Group> object. You
need to insert that object as a separate step.

=head1 Custom query

You can define your own query:

  has_many groups_sorted => "MyApp::Model::Group";

  sub _has_many_groups_sorted_sql {
    my ($self, $related_class, @extra) = @_;

    return $related_class->expand_sql(
      "SELECT %pc FROM %t WHERE user_id=? order by name", $self->id
    );
  }

Note above that C<@extra> is any extra arguments passed on to
the method:

  $user->groups_sorted("extra", "args");

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2014-2016, Jan Henning Thorsen

This program is free software, you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Artistic License version 2.0.

=head1 AUTHOR

Jan Henning Thorsen - C<jhthorsen@cpan.org>

=cut
