# -*- Perl -*-
# See copyright, etc in below POD section.
######################################################################

=pod

=head1 NAME

SystemC::Manual - SystemPerl primary documentation

=head1 SUMMARY

The publicly licensed SystemPerl package provides several extensions
to SystemC.  It provides sp_preproc, extending the language for
AUTOmatic connection of hierarchy like my Verilog-Mode, trace files
and netlist linting.  Its netlist and parsing utilities are general
enough for writing your own tools.  Two additional tools provide for
speeding up GCC compiles and dependency correction.  You can download
SystemC from the link off of http://www.veripool.org/systemperl

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This package provides several major sub-packages.  The SystemC::Parser
understands how to read SystemC files, and extract tokens and such,
similar to Verilog::Parser.

SystemC::Netlist builds netlists out of SystemC files.  This allows
easy scripts to determine things such as the hierarchy of SC_MODULEs.
The netlist database may also be extended to support other languages.

sp_preproc provides extensions to the SystemC language, called the
SystemPerl language.  This allows most of the Tedium to be removed
from SystemC coding, just as the author's /*AUTO*/ comments did for
the Verilog language.  See L<SystemC::SystemPerl> after installation.

sp_include shows a technique for speeding up SystemC compiles using
GCC.  sp_makecheck allows for cleaning up dependency files when
dependencies have been removed or changed.

Finally, the src directory contains useful C++ utilities for
simulation, such as changing cout to send to both the screen and a
file.  You may point to this directory underneath the kit, or set
SYSTEMPERL_INCLDUE to point to these sources.

=head2 Parsing example

    package Trialparser;
    @ISA = qw(SystemC::Parser);

    sub module {
        my $self = shift;
        my $module = shift;
        print $self->filename.":".$self->lineno().": ";
        print "Contains the module declaration for $module\n";
    }

    package main;
    my $sp = Trialparser->new();
    $sp->read ("test.sp");

=head2 Netlist example

  use SystemC::Netlist;

    my $nl = new SystemC::Netlist ();
    foreach my $file ('testnetlist.sp') {
        $nl->read_file (filename=>$file,
                        strip_autos=>1);
    }
    $nl->link();
    $nl->autos();
    $nl->lint();
    $nl->exit_if_error();

    foreach my $mod ($nl->modules_sorted) {
        show_hier ($mod, "  ");
    }

    sub show_hier {
        my $mod = shift;
        my $indent = shift;
        print $indent,"Module ",$mod->name,"\n";
        foreach my $cell ($mod->cells_sorted) {
            show_hier ($cell->submod, $indent."  ".$cell->name."  ");
        }
    }

=head2 SystemPerl example

    SC_MODULE(mod) {
	/*AUTOSIGNAL*/
	SC_CTOR(mod) {
	    SP_CELL (sub, submod);
	    /*AUTOINST*/

This expands into:

    SC_MODULE(mod) {
	/*AUTOSIGNAL*/
	// Beginning of SystemPerl automatic signals
	sc_signal<bool>		    a;	     // For submod
	// End of SystemPerl automatic signals

	SC_CTOR(mod) {
	    SP_CELL (sub, submod);
	    /*AUTOINST*/
	    // Beginning of SystemPerl automatic pins
	    SP_PIN (sub, a,	  a);
	    // End of SystemPerl automatic pins


=head1 SUPPORTED SYSTEMS

This version of SystemPerl has been built and tested on:

  * i386-linux

It should run on any system with Perl, a C compiler, bison, and flex.

SystemC must be installed to get the complete function.  Currently
1.2.1beta, 2.0.1, 2.1 and 2.2 are the versions supported for tracing,
other versions should work without tracing or with minor editing.

=head1 INSTALLATION

=over 4

=item

Download the latest package from http://www.veripool.org/systemperl or
CPAN and decompress.

  gunzip SystemPerl_version.tar.gz ; tar xvf SystemPerl_version.tar}

=item

cd to the directory containing this README notice.  Some files will
permanently live in this directory, so make sure it's in a site wide
area.

  cd SystemPerl*

=item

Make sure the C<SYSTEMC> environment variable points to your SystemC
installed directory; or that C<SYSTEMC_INCLUDE> points to the include
directory with systemc.h in it, and that C<SYSTEMC_LIBDIR> points to the
directory with libsystemc.a in it.  If using bash, this would consist of
the line

    export SYSTEMC=/path/to/systemc
    export SYSTEMC_INCLUDE=/path/to/systemc/include   # with systemc.h
    export SYSTEMC_LIBDIR=/path/to/systemc/lib    # with libsystemc.a

in your C<~/.bashrc> file.

If different than the above, make sure the C<SYSTEMC_KIT> environment
variable points to your original SystemC source code kit.

Type C<perl Makefile.PL> to configure SystemPerl for your system.

You may get a warning message about needing Verilog::Netlist, if so
you need to install or upgrade the C<verilog-perl> package from CPAN.

=item

Type C<make> to compile SystemPerl.

If you get a error message ``y.tab.c: error: parse error before
goto,'' there is a problem between Bison and GCC.  The simplest fix is
to edit y.tab.c to comment out ``__attribute__ ((unused))''.

=item

Type C<make test> to check the compilation.

=item

You can see examples under the test_dir directory.  The *.sp files are
"inline" converted, while the *.h and *.cpp files are expanded from
the .sp files.

=item

Type C<make install> to install the programs and any data files and
documentation.

=item

Add a C<SYSTEMPERL> environment variable that points to the directory
of this kit (the directory you typed ``make install'' inside, not your
site-perl directory.)  If using bash, this would consist of the line

  export SYSTEMPERL=/path/to/systemperl

in your C<~/.bashrc> file.

=item

Optionally add a C<SYSTEMPERL_INCLUDE> environment variable if for some
reason you wish to relocate the include files (the files under the kit's
src directory).  For example distributions often want to relocate the
SystemPerl includes into the standard system include directory.  Note that
these files are not installed with C<make install> (as Perl doesn't provide
a standard way to install includes), which is why SYSTEMPERL or
SYSTEMPERL_INCLUDE must point to them.

=back

=head1 DISTRIBUTION

SystemPerl is part of the L<http://www.veripool.org/> free SystemC software
tool suite.  The latest version is available from CPAN and from
L<http://www.veripool.org/systemperl>.

Copyright 2001-2014 by Wilson Snyder.  This package is free software; you
can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of either the GNU
Lesser General Public License Version 3 or the Perl Artistic License
Version 2.0.

This code is provided with no warranty of any kind, and is used entirely at
your own risk.

=head1 AUTHORS

Wilson Snyder <wsnyder@wsnyder.org>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head2 Primary Documentation:

L<SystemC::Manual> (This document)

=head2 Language Documentation:

L<SystemC::SystemPerl>

=head2 Programs:

L<sp_includer>, L<sp_makecheck>, L<sp_preproc>

=head2 Major modules:

L<SystemC::Netlist>, L<SystemC::Parser>

=head2 Submodules:

L<SystemC::Coverage>
L<SystemC::Coverage::Item>
L<SystemC::Coverage::ItemKey>

L<SystemC::Netlist>
L<SystemC::Netlist::AutoCover>
L<SystemC::Netlist::AutoTrace>
L<SystemC::Netlist::Cell>
L<SystemC::Netlist::Class>
L<SystemC::Netlist::CoverGroup>
L<SystemC::Netlist::CoverPoint>
L<SystemC::Netlist::File>
L<SystemC::Netlist::Method>
L<SystemC::Netlist::Module>
L<SystemC::Netlist::Net>
L<SystemC::Netlist::Pin>
L<SystemC::Netlist::Port>

L<Verilog::Netlist>

=cut
