# See copyright, etc in below POD section.
######################################################################

=pod

=head1 NAME

SystemC::SystemPerl - SystemPerl Language Extension to SystemC

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SystemPerl is a version of the SystemC language.  It is designed to expand
text so that needless repetition in the language is minimized.  By using
L<sp_preproc>, SystemPerl files can be expanded into C++ files at compile
time, or expanded in place to make them valid stand-alone SystemC files.

The concept of SystemPerl is based upon the AUTOS in the L<verilog-mode>
package for Emacs, by the same author.

=head1 LANGUAGE

=over 4

=item #sp

#sp directives are recognized by SystemPerl to split up files and control
preprocessing.  Use of any #sp's forces use of SystemPerl preprocessing, and
removes full SystemC compatibility.

=item /*AUTOS*/

AUTOmatics provide a way of expanding interconnections, while potentially
retaining fully compatible SystemC code.  The preprocessor can edit the
source code file directly, resulting in the source code having the expanded
automatics.

Code with expanded AUTOs are fully valid SystemC code, and can be sent to
anyone who does not even have system perl.  Anyone with SystemPerl has the
benefit of being able to automatically regenerate them, and saves coding
time.

=back

=head1 LANGUAGE REQUIREMENTS

SystemPerl requires the following coding conventions.  These tokens are not
changed in any way, but are simply required for SystemPerl to be able to
derive required information from the source code.

=over 4

=item SP_AUTO_COVER()

Create a coverage point at the current file and line number.  If the
statement is executed, the coverage bucket will increment.

=item SP_AUTO_COVER_CMT (I<comment>)

Create a coverage point at the current file and line number, and note the
specified comment.  If the statement is executed, the coverage bucket will
increment.

=item SP_AUTO_COVER_CMT_IF (I<comment>,I<condition>)

Create a coverage point at the current file and line number, and note the
specified comment.  If the statement is executed and the specified
condition is true, the coverage bucket will increment.

=item SP_COVER_INSERT (I<valuePtr>,I<key>,I<value>[,I<key2>,I<value2>...])

Create a coverage point at the current file and line number.  Store the key
and value pairs as attributes of the coverage bucket; generally these are
arbitrary text; use "comment" to set the general comment field.

The coverage variable is passed as a pointer, which the user must increment
manually.  The pointer will be read by dereference at the end of time, and
so must still point to a valid structure at that time.

For example:

    // In the class declaration:
    SpZeroed<uint32_t> m_fcCases[FsmState::MAX][FsmState::MAX]; // [old][new]

    ...
    // In the constructor:
    for (a = 0; a<FsmState::MAX; a++) {
      for (b = 0; b<FsmState::MAX; b++) {
        SP_COVER_INSERT(&m_fcCases[*a][*b],
	            "comment","FsmState Transitions",
                    "OldState",*a,
	            "NewState",*b,
                    "TestplanSectionNumber","1.4.2.1");

    // Wherever you need to increment:
    ++m_fcCases[oldstate][newstate];

=item SP_COVERGROUP I<groupname> (I<coverpoints>...])

For example:

SC_MODULE(__MODULE__) {

  EnumType var1;
  EnumType var2;
  uint32_t var3;
  uint32_t var4;
  bool e1;
  bool e2;
  ...

  SP_COVERGROUP name (
    option per_instance = 1;                     // this group is covered separately per instance
    description = "a bunch of text that will appear next to the HTML table; what's this covergroup all about?";
    coverpoint      var3[16] = [0:0x1000];       // 16 evenly space bins dividing [0:0x1000]
    coverpoint      var3_alt(var3) {             // alternate name
      bins sizes[] = {0, 1, [2:5], [8:100]};     // 4 bins as specified
      bins few = [3:5];
      bins three = EnumType::THREE;              // can use enums on the RHS
      bins dist_ranges[4] = [200:299];           // 4 bins spread over a range
      bins other = default;                      // named default
      limit_func = var3_limit();
    }
    coverpoint var1 {                            // automatic enum bins
      auto_enum_bins = EnumType;
    };
    coverpoint var4[16] = [0:0x1000] {           // illegal and ignored bins
      option radix = 16;                         // name the bins in hex
      illegal_bins_func = var4_illegal();
      ignore_bins_func = var4_ignore();
      illegal_bins banish_bad_luck = 13;
      ignore_bins  ignore_zero = 0;
    };
    cross myCross {                              // 3-dimensional cross; up to 8 are permitted
      rows = {var1,var4};
      cols = {var3_alt};
      page = "mypage";                           // put this table on a separate page
      description = "this text goes above the table";
    };
    window myWin(e1,e2,4);                       // 9 bins +/- e1 occuring 4 samples before/after e2
  );
  ...
  bool var4_ignore(uint64_t var4) { ... }  // return true if value should be ignored
  bool var4_illegal(uint64_t var4) { ... } // return true if test should assert
  uint32_t var3_limit(uint64_t var3_alt) { ... } // return CovVise limit for "high"; default is 10
  ...
  /*AUTOMETHODS*/
}

SP_CTOR_IMP(__MODULE__) /*AUTOINIT*/ {
    SP_AUTO_CTOR;
    ...
}

void __MODULE__::foo() {
    ...
    SP_COVER_SAMPLE(name);
    ...
}

=item SP_CLASS (I<class>)

SP_CLASS declares a SC_MODULE like structure, most likely to accomplish
special inheritance.  If a new base class is derived from sc_module, you
must use SP_CLASS when the derived class is used, so that SystemPerl knows
the final class is a child of a sc_module.  For example:

    class FooBase : public sc_module {...};

  Then to use FooBase, instead of
    class Foo : public FooBase {...};

  use
    SP_CLASS(Foo) : public FooBase {...};

=item SP_CELL_DECL (I<refname>, I<instname[s]>)

SP_CELL_DECL declares the cell structures.  It is only needed to declare
those cells that AUTOCELLS will not create itself; currently this is any
cells which are arrayed.

=item SP_CELL (I<instname>, I<refname>)

SP_CELL instantiates the given module named refname as a instantiation
called instname.  The instname is also passed as a parameter to refname as
a string.  Note if you are doing an array, you probably want SP_CELL_FORM.

=item SP_CELL_FORM (I<instname>, I<refname>, I<form>, ...)

SP_CELL_FORM instantiates the given module named refname as a instantiation.
The instantiation is named by using a sprintf of the given format and arguments.
Generally this is used for arrays: i.e.:

    SP_CELL_FORM(slice[i], smm_pi_slice, "slice[%d]", i);

=item SC_MODULE (I<modulename>)

Though a standard optional SystemC construct, SystemC requires use of the
SC_MODULE macro when defining a module class. For example "struct mod1 :
public sc_module" must instead be coded as "SC_MODULE(mod1)".

=item SP_MODULE_CONTINUED (I<modulename>)

SP_MODULE_CONTINUED allows a new source file to continue declaration of
functions that were declared in a different .sp file.  This will not put
any code into the output, it is only required for proper parsing of
Verilated files.

=item SP_PIN (I<instname>, I<portname>, I<netname>)

SP_PIN declares a connection of a instantiation's port to the specified net.

=item SP_TEMPLATE ("<instregexp>", "<portregexp>", "<netregexp>", ["<typeregexp>"]);

SP_TEMPLATE defines a rule for connecting pins with AUTOINST that can apply
to a regular expression of instance names and port names.  This is useful
for connecting signals to arrayed instances, or other mass-renaming tasks.

The first parameter is a unquoted instance name, or a double-quoted Perl
regular expression which must match against the instance name for the
template to apply.  Regular expressions must conform to those described in
L<pcrepattern>, and are anchored to the instance name - in that SystemPerl
implies a leading "^" and trailing "$" in the regular expression, and the
^/$ must not be included by the user.  Be careful with brackets, as they
specify regular expression character classes; if a literal bracket is
wanted such as for matching array references, quote it with a backslash.

The second parameter is a regular expression which must match against the
port name for the template to apply.  As with the instance regexp, it is
anchored for you.

The third parameter is the net to connect when the template matches.  The
regular expression may contain $1, $2 etc, which correspond to the
parenthesis in both the instance and port regular expressions concatenated.

The optional fourth parameter is a regular expression which must match the
type of the cell's pin.  For example "sc_out" would make a template that
matches only outputs.

For example,

    SP_TEMPLATE("sub(\d+)", "arrayed_(.*)", "$2_array$1");

    Where there	is a sub1 instance with a pin "arrayed_foo".

When a instance name matches /^sub\d+$/ which "sub1" does, and a port name
matches /^arrayed_.*$/, which "arrayed_foo" does, then the pin will be
named based on the port name and sub number, in this case $2 has "foo" and
$1 has "1", so the resulting connection will be to "foo_array1".

=item SP_TRACED

SP_TRACED is used as an attribute like static or const.  It indicates the
simple variable inside a SC_MODULE or another class should be added to any
waves files that AUTOTRACE creates.

SP_TRACED may also be used on the member variables inside standard classes.
This allows the class to be traced if it is used as the type of a
sc_in/sc_out/sc_signal.  For a sample, see MySigStruct in the examples.

=back

=head1 EXPANSIONS

SystemPerl expands the following special tokens.

=over 4

=item __MODULE__

__MODULE__ is predefined to the name of the module, from the basename of
the filename.  This allows files to be more easily replicated, and to avoid
obscure errors when the filename does not match the module name.

For example:

    SC_MODULE (__MODULE__) {
      ...

=item /*AUTOATTR("I<attribute>")*/

Sets a internal attribute.  There are no attributes currently specified for
general usage.

=item /*AUTOCTOR*/

AUTOCTOR creates the pin name initializers required in the SC_MODULE's
constructor.  For example:

    sc_in<bool> in_signal;
    ...
    SP_CTOR_IMP(__MODULE__) /*AUTOCTOR*/ {

Becomes:

    SP_CTOR_IMP(__MODULE__) : in_signal("in_signal") {

=item /*AUTOINIT*/

AUTOINIT creates signal and port name initializers for SC_CTOR's.
/*AUTOCTOR*/ is a backward compatible alias, but was depreciated due to the
similarity in name with SP_AUTO_CTOR.

For example:

    SC_MODULE(submod) {
	sc_in_clk   clk;
	...

    SC_MODULE(mod) {
	SC_CTOR(mod) /*AUTOINIT*/ {

Becomes:

    SC_MODULE(mod) {
	SC_CTOR(mod)
	      // Beginning of SystemPerl automatic initializer
	      : clk("clk")
	      // End of SystemPerl automatic initializer

=item /*AUTOENUM_I<CLASS|GLOBAL>(I<enum>)*/

AUTOENUM is used to take an existing enumeration and make it into a class
with functions to return the ASCII name of the enumeration, and to create
an iterator to loop over all enum values.  This makes it easy to print the
value of the enumeration in text form.

For example:

    class MyENumClass {
    public:
	enum en {
	IDLE = 0,
	ONE, TWO
	};
	/*AUTOENUM_CLASS(MyENumClass.en)*/
    };
    /*AUTOENUM_GLOBAL(MyENumClass.en)*/

Becomes:

    class MyENumClass {
    public:
	enum en {
	    IDLE = 0,
	    ONE, TWO
	};
	/*AUTOENUM_CLASS(MyENumClass.en)*/
	// Beginning of SystemPerl automatic enumeration
	enum en e_en;
	inline MyENumClass () {};
	inline MyENumClass (en _e) : e_en(_e) {};
	explicit inline MyENumClass (int _e) : e_en(static_cast<en>(_e)) {};
	operator const char * (void) const { return ascii(); };
	operator en (void) const { return e_en; };
	const char *ascii (void) const {
	   switch (e_en) {
	   case IDLE: return "IDLE";
	   case ONE: return "ONE";
	   case TWO: return "TWO";
	   default: return "%E:BadVal:MyENumClass";
	   };
	};
	class iterator; ...
	// End of SystemPerl automatic enumeration
    };
    /*AUTOENUM_GLOBAL(MyENumClass.en)*/
    // Beginning of SystemPerl automatic enumeration
    inline bool operator== (MyENumClass lhs, MyENumClass rhs) { return (lhs.e_en == rhs.e_en); }
    //... other accessors
    // End of SystemPerl automatic enumeration

=item /*AUTOINOUT_MODULE(I<mod>[,I<signal>[,I<direction-or-type>]])*/

AUTOINOUT_MODULE indicates the input/output list should be copied from the
specified other module.  Optionally only signal names matching the
specified regular expression, and with direction and data type matching the
third parameter are included.

This is useful for creating null modules which need identical pinouts to
the module which they are nulling out.  AUTOSIGNAL must be used along with
this auto, as the ports are inserted at the point where the AUTOSIGNAL is.

=item /*AUTOIMPLEMENTATION*/

AUTOIMPLEMENTATION includes function definitions required inside the .cpp
file, such as functions implementing ENUM ascii functions.  AUTOIMPLEMENTATION
will be included automatically at the end of a expanded .cpp file if it is
not otherwise found in the file.

=item /*AUTOINST*/

AUTOINST connects any unreferenced ports for the current SP_CELL to signals
named the same as the port name.

For example:

    SC_MODULE(submod) {
	sc_in_clk   clk;
	...

    SC_MODULE(mod) {
	SC_CTOR(mod) {
	    SP_CELL (sub, submod);
	      /*AUTOINST*/

Becomes:

    SC_MODULE(mod) {
	SC_CTOR(mod) {
	    SP_CELL (sub, submod);
	      // Beginning of SystemPerl automatic instantiation pins
	      SP_PIN (sub, clk,	    clk);
	      // End of SystemPerl automatic instantiation pins

=item /*AUTOINTERFACE*/

AUTOINTERFACE includes function definitions required inside the .h file.
Nothing needs to be inserted there yet, so this AUTO does not need to be
used.

=item /*AUTOMETHODS*/

AUTOMETHODS indicates where interface declarations should be inserted.  It
also declares a SC_CTOR(__MODULE__) method if there is not already one in
the class header.  Additional methods that are inserted are is described
under AUTOTRACE.

=item /*AUTOSUBCELL_CLASS*/

AUTOSUBCELL_CLASS creates forward class declarations for the submodules
instantiated in SP_CELL declarations.

For example:

    /*AUTOSUBCELL_CLASS*/
    SC_MODULE(mod) {
	SC_CTOR(mod) {
	    SP_CELL (sub, submod);

Becomes:

    /*AUTOSUBCELL_CLASS*/
    // Beginning of SystemPerl automatic subcell includes
    class submod;
    // End of SystemPerl automatic subcell includes
    ...

=item /*AUTOSUBCELL_DECL*/

AUTOSUBCELL_DECL declares the submodules instantiated in SP_CELL declarations.

For example:

    SC_MODULE(mod) {
	/*AUTOSUBCELL_DECL*/
	SC_CTOR(mod) {
	    SP_CELL (sub, submod);
	      SP_PIN (sub, a,	    a);

Becomes:

    SC_MODULE(mod) {
	/*AUTOSUBCELL_DECL*/
	// Beginning of SystemPerl automatic subcells
	submod		  *sub;
	// End of SystemPerl automatic subcells

	SC_CTOR(mod) {
	    SP_CELL (sub, submod);
	      SP_PIN (sub, a,	    a);

=item /*AUTOSUBCELL_INCLUDE*/

AUTOSUBCELL_INCLUDE creates includes for the submodules instantiated in
SP_CELL declarations.

For example:

    /*AUTOSUBCELL_INCLUDE*/
    SC_MODULE(mod) {
	SC_CTOR(mod) {
	    SP_CELL (sub, submod);

Becomes:

    /*AUTOSUBCELL_INCLUDE*/
    // Beginning of SystemPerl automatic subcell includes
    #include "submod.h"
    // End of SystemPerl automatic subcell includes
    ...

=item /*AUTOSIGNAL*/

AUTOSIGNAL declares any signals used in SP_PIN connections that are not
declared elsewhere.

For example:

    SC_MODULE(mod) {
	/*AUTOSIGNAL*/
	SC_CTOR(mod) {
	    SP_CELL (sub, submod);
	      SP_PIN (sub, a,	    a);

Becomes:

    SC_MODULE(mod) {
	/*AUTOSIGNAL*/
	// Beginning of SystemPerl automatic signals
	sc_signal<bool>		    a;	     // For submod
	// End of SystemPerl automatic signals

	SC_CTOR(mod) {
	    SP_CELL (sub, submod);
	      SP_PIN (sub, a,	    a);

=item /*AUTOTIEOFF*/

AUTOTIEOFF creates zeroing assignments for all outputs of the module.
Normally this is used in a method called at reset time.

For example:

    /*AUTOTIEOFF*/

Becomes:

    /*AUTOTIEOFF*/
    // Beginning of SystemPerl automatic tieoffs
    a.write(0);
    // End of SystemPerl automatic tieoffs

=item /*AUTOTRACE(I<module>,I<recurse>)*/

AUTOTRACE creates a routine to trace the ports and signals in the current
module, and then call the tracing routine on all submodules.  AUTOMETHODS
is also required in the declaration of the module.  A optional second
argument of "recurse" indicates the trace code should include all
submodules, leading to smaller trace files, but longer compile and link
times.

AUTOTRACE will not trace signals beginning with a underscore.  It also
replaces __DOT__ in signal names to "." to support fake hierarchy, such as
is created with Verilator.

Note because of a SystemC limitation, output ports cannot be traced.  Also
the hierarchy is not properly placed into the trace file; the hierarchy path
will be added to the signal name itself.  Also, arrayed nets/cells aren't
quite right yet.

Example:

    SC_MODULE (ExMod) {
	...
	sc_in<bool>	    in;
	SP_CELL_DECL(ExModSub,		suba);

	/*AUTOMETHODS*/
	// Beginning of SystemPerl automatic declarations
	void trace (sc_trace_file *tf, const sc_string& prefix, int levels, int options=0);
	// End of SystemPerl automatic declarations
    }
    ...

    /*AUTOTRACE(ExMod)*/
    // Beginning of SystemPerl automatic trace file routine
    void ExMod::trace (sc_trace_file *tf, const sc_string& prefix, int levels, int options=0) {
	sc_trace(tf, this->in.read(),		prefix+"in", 1);
	if (levels > 0) {
	    this->suba->trace (tf, prefix+"suba.", levels-1, options);
	}
    }
    // End of SystemPerl automatic trace file routine

=item SP_AUTO_CTOR

SP_AUTO_CTOR should be called first in every constructor.  It will call
internal functions needed for coverage analysis, and other possible future
enhancements.

=item SP_AUTO_METHOD

SP_AUTO_METHOD is placed in a SC_METHOD function.  It takes a method name
and a sensitivity argument, and declares the specified method under the
AUTOMETHODS auto, and declares the SC_METHOD and sensitivity under the
SP_AUTO_CTOR area.

For example the below

    void __MODULE__::clockMethod() {
        SP_AUTO_METHOD(clockMethod, clk.pos());

This will automatically insert the following:
   in the class declaration under AUTOMETHODS:
	private:
	   void clockMethod();

   in the constructor under SP_AUTO_CTOR:
	SC_METHOD(clockMethod);
	sensitive << clk.pos();

=item SP_CTOR_IMP

SP_CTOR_IMP provides the implementation function corresponding to SC_CTOR.
This allows the header to use "SC_CTOR;" and the body of the constructor
to be moved into the implementation file.   This greatly decreases the number
of includes needed in the header file, and thus speeds compilation.

=item sp_ui

Sp_ui acts a magic SystemC signal type.  Sp_ui takes two template-like
arguments, representing the MSB and LSB of the data.  SystemPerl will
replace the sp_ui with a bool, uint32_t, uint64_t or sc_bv depending on the
width of the required type, using MSB alone.  This matches the rules that
Verilator requires for created shells.  Thus a Verilog definition

     input [35:3]  signal;

is equivalent to the SystemPerl declaration:

     sc_in<sp_ui<35,3> >   signal;

Sp_ui's can interconnect with the standard uint types. Only the bits up to
the MSB will be traced in waves files, while the LSB is only for Verilog
interconnecting; it's presumed the lower bits are still stored and zero
inside SystemC.  Note it is the programmers job to insure that bits above
the MSB and below the LSB are zero, this is not done for you.

=item #sp else

Inverts the last #sp ifdef/ifndef.

=item #sp endif

Ends a #sp ifdef/ifndef.

=item #sp ifdef I<define>

Turns off processing until the next #sp endif, if the specified define is not
defined.  Allows SystemPerl preprocessing similar to C++ #ifdef.

=item #sp ifndef I<define>

Turns off processing until the next #sp endif, if the specified define is
defined.  Allows SystemPerl preprocessing similar to C++ #ifdef.

=item #sp include

Includes the file for the preprocessor, it will be expanded into the output
.h/.cpp files.  Note that regular "#include" files are not read or expanded
to save disk space and time.

=item #sp interface

Interface specifies the following code should be moved into a the header
file.  This allows a common .sp file to contain both .h and .cpp
information.  SystemPerl automatically adds include guards in the header,
to protect against multiple inclusion.

=item #sp implementation

Specifies the following code should be part of the cpp file.
This allows a common .sp file to contain both .h and .cpp information.

=item #sp slow

Specifies the following code should be part of a slow cpp file, compiled
with minimal optimization because the functions contained within are only
executed once.  This allows a common .sp file to contain both .h, fast .cpp,
and slow .cpp information.

=item #sp use

This specifies a file that must be #included at compile time.  In addition
the file is a .sp file, which must be preprocessed by sp_preproc, and added
to the link list.  Thus using #sp use automatically finds the objects
required for linking against the includer.  (Just like Perl's package and
use statements.)

In addition to specifying an exact string like with #include, you may also
specify a define symbol or a cell search path.  The value of a definition
will be substituted to find the file to be included.  If a name of the form
.cell.subcell is used, it will include both the header for the module for
"cell", and for "subcell" underneath "cell".

=back

=head1 DISTRIBUTION

SystemPerl is part of the L<http://www.veripool.org/> free SystemC software
tool suite.  The latest version is available from CPAN and from
L<http://www.veripool.org/systemperl>.

Copyright 2001-2014 by Wilson Snyder.  This package is free software; you
can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of either the GNU
Lesser General Public License Version 3 or the Perl Artistic License
Version 2.0.

=head1 AUTHORS

Wilson Snyder <wsnyder@wsnyder.org>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<SystemC::Manual>

=cut
