=head1 NAME

PDLA::Modules - A guide to PDLA's module reference.


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This page serves as a table of contents for PDLA's module documentation.
This page does not list every single PDLA module. It only shows the ones
intended for PDLA users, while omitting those which are deemed "for
internal use only". If you wish to see a comprehensive list of all
documentation, please see the L<PDLA::Index|PDLA::Index> page.

=head1 LOOKING FOR A FUNCTION?

If you want to search for a function name, you should use the PDLA
shell along with the "help" or "apropos" command (to do a fuzzy search).
For example:

 pdla> apropos xval
 xlinvals        X axis values between endpoints (see xvals).
 xlogvals        X axis values logarithmicly spaced...
 xvals           Fills a piddle with X index values...
 yvals           Fills a piddle with Y index values. See the CAVEAT for xvals.
 zvals           Fills a piddle with Z index values. See the CAVEAT for xvals.

To learn more about the PDLA shell, see L<perldla|perldla> or L<pdla2|pdla2>.

=head1 FOUNDATION

=over 5

=item L<perldla|perldla> or L<pdla2|pdla2>

Learn about the PDLA shell.

=back

=head2 Functions

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::Core|PDLA::Core>

Core module (e.g. creating piddles).

=item L<PDLA::Basic|PDLA::Basic>

Simplified interface to the more general PDLA::Primitive.

=item L<PDLA::Ops|PDLA::Ops>

Basic operators (e.g. arithmetic, comparisons, etc.).

=item L<PDLA::Ufunc|PDLA::Ufunc>

Functions that accumulate along a dimension (e.g. sum, max).

=back

=head2 Other Features

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::AutoLoader|PDLA::AutoLoader>

MATLAB-style function autoloader.

=item L<PDLA::Slices|PDLA::Slices>

Indexing and slices. How to access a subset of a piddle.

=item L<PDLA::NiceSlice|PDLA::NiceSlice>

Nicer syntax for slices.

=back



=head1 MISCELLANEOUS

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::Primitive|PDLA::Primitive>

Fundamental operations on piddles.

=item L<PDLA::Complex|PDLA::Complex>

Complex numbers.

=item L<PDLA::Bad|PDLA::Bad>

Bad value support.

=item L<PDLA::Reduce|PDLA::Reduce>

A 'reduce' function for PDLA.

=item L<PDLA::Lite|PDLA::Lite>

Minimum PDLA module OO loader.

=item L<PDLA::LiteF|PDLA::LiteF>

Minimum PDLA module function loader.

=item L<PDLA::Extended|PDLA::Extended>

Extended Mathematical Operators.

=item L<PDLA::Func|PDLA::Func>

Interpolation-related functions.

=back



=head1 GRAPHICS

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::Graphics::PGPLOT|PDLA::Graphics::PGPLOT>

PGPLOT library.

=item L<PDLA::Graphics::PLplot|PDLA::Graphics::PLplot>

PLplot library.

=back


=head2 3D Graphics

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::Graphics::TriD|PDLA::Graphics::TriD>

3D graphics core module.

=item L<PDLA::Graphics::TriD::Rout|PDLA::Graphics::TriD::Rout>

Helper routines for 3D graphics.

=item L<PDLA::Graphics::TriD::Contours|PDLA::Graphics::TriD::Contours>

3D surface contours.

=back



=head2 Helper Modules

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::Graphics::LUT|PDLA::Graphics::LUT>

Look-up tables.

=item L<PDLA::Graphics::IIS|PDLA::Graphics::IIS>

Display images on IIS devices.

=item L<PDLA::Graphics::Limits|PDLA::Graphics::Limits>

Derive data limits for display purposes.

=back



=head1 IMAGE PROCESSING

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::Compression|PDLA::Compression>

Compression utilities.

=item L<PDLA::Image2D|PDLA::Image2D>

2-dimmensional image processing.

=item L<PDLA::ImageND|PDLA::ImageND>

N-dimmensional image processing.

=item L<PDLA::ImageRGB|PDLA::ImageRGB>

RGB image data handling.

=back



=head1 NUMERICAL METHODS

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::FFT|PDLA::FFT>

Fast Fourier Transform (native implementation).

=item L<PDLA::FFTW|PDLA::FFTW>

PDLA interface to the FFTW library.

=item L<PDLA::Filter::LinPred|PDLA::Filter::LinPred>

Linear predictive filtering.

=item L<PDLA::Filter::Linear|PDLA::Filter::Linear>

Linear filtering.

=item L<PDLA::Opt::Simplex|PDLA::Opt::Simplex>

Simplex optimization routines.

=item L<PDLA::Minuit|PDLA::Minuit>

PDLA interface to the Minuit library.

=item L<PDLA::Slatec|PDLA::Slatec>

PDLA interface to the Slatec library.

=back



=head1 COORDINATE TRANSFORMATIONS

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::Transform|PDLA::Transform>

Coordinate transforms, image warping, and N-D functions.

=item L<PDLA::Transform::Cartography|PDLA::Transform::Cartography>

Cartographic projections.

=item L<PDLA::Transform::Proj4|PDLA::Transform::Proj4>

PDLA interface to the Proj4 projection library.

=back



=head1 IO FUNCTIONS

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::IO|PDLA::IO>

Overview of IO functions.

=item L<PDLA::IO::Dumper|PDLA::IO::Dumper>

Data dumper.

=item L<PDLA::IO::FastRaw|PDLA::IO::FastRaw>

Fast storage format (outdated).

=item L<PDLA::IO::FlexRaw|PDLA::IO::FlexRaw>

Flexible storage format.

=item L<PDLA::IO::Rout|PDLA::IO::Rout>

Misc IO routines.

=item L<PDLA::IO::Sortable|PDLA::IO::Sortable>

Support for Perl's 'Storable' module.

=back


=head2 Image Formats

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::IO::FITS|PDLA::IO::FITS>

PDLA support for FITS images.

=item L<PDLA::IO::PNM|PDLA::IO::PNM>

PDLA support for PNM images.

=item L<PDLA::IO::GD|PDLA::IO::GD>

PDLA interface to the GD image library.

=item L<PDLA::IO::HDF|PDLA::IO::HDF>

PDLA interface to the HDH4 image library.

=item L<PDLA::IO::NetPBM|PDLA::IO::NetPBM>

PDLA interface to the NetPBM image library.

=item L<PDLA::IO::NDF|PDLA::IO::NDF>

PDLA interface to the Starlink image library. Available
as a separate CPAN download.

=back



=head1 2D MATRICES

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::Matrix|PDLA::Matrix>

Convenience class for 2D matrix work.

=item L<PDLA::MatrixOps|PDLA::MatrixOps>

Additional matrix operators.

=back



=head1 GNU SCIENTIFIC LIBRARY

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::GSL::DIFF|PDLA::GSL::DIFF>

Numerical differentiation.

=item L<PDLA::GSL::INTEG|PDLA::GSL::INTEG>

Numerical integration.

=item L<PDLA::GSL::INTERP|PDLA::GSL::INTERP>

Interpolation.

=item L<PDLA::GSL::MROOT|PDLA::GSL::MROOT>

Multidimensional root-finding.

=item L<PDLA::GSL::RNG|PDLA::GSL::RNG>

RNG and randist.

=back



=head2 Special Functions

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::AIRY|PDLA::GSLSF::AIRY>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::BESSEL|PDLA::GSLSF::BESSEL>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::CLAUSEN|PDLA::GSLSF::CLAUSEN>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::COULOMB|PDLA::GSLSF::COULOMB>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::COUPLING|PDLA::GSLSF::COUPLING>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::DAWSON|PDLA::GSLSF::DAWSON>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::DEBYE|PDLA::GSLSF::DEBYE>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::DILOG|PDLA::GSLSF::DILOG>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::ELEMENTARY|PDLA::GSLSF::ELEMENTARY>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::ELLINT|PDLA::GSLSF::ELLINT>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::ELLJAC|PDLA::GSLSF::ELLJAC>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::ERF|PDLA::GSLSF::ERF>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::EXP|PDLA::GSLSF::EXP>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::EXPINT|PDLA::GSLSF::EXPINT>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::FERMI_DIRAC|PDLA::GSLSF::FERMI_DIRAC>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::GAMMA|PDLA::GSLSF::GAMMA>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::GEGENBAUER|PDLA::GSLSF::GEGENBAUER>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::HYPERG|PDLA::GSLSF::HYPERG>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::LAGUERRE|PDLA::GSLSF::LAGUERRE>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::LEGENDRE|PDLA::GSLSF::LEGENDRE>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::LOG|PDLA::GSLSF::LOG>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::POLY|PDLA::GSLSF::POLY>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::POW_INT|PDLA::GSLSF::POW_INT>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::PSI|PDLA::GSLSF::PSI>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::SYNCHROTRON|PDLA::GSLSF::SYNCHROTRON>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::TRANSPORT|PDLA::GSLSF::TRANSPORT>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::TRIG|PDLA::GSLSF::TRIG>

=item L<PDLA::GSLSF::ZETA|PDLA::GSLSF::ZETA>

=back



=head1 FITTING FUNCTIONS

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::Fit::Gaussian|PDLA::Fit::Gaussian>

Fit gaussian curves.

=item L<PDLA::Fit::Polynomial|PDLA::Fit::Polynomial>

Fit polynomials.

=item L<PDLA::Fit::Linfit|PDLA::Fit::Linfit>

Fit linear combinations of functions.

=item L<PDLA::Fit::LM|PDLA::Fit::LM>

Fit functions using the Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm.

=back



=head1 ADVANCED

=over 5

=item L<PDLA::Dbg|PDLA::Dbg>

PDLA debugger.

=item L<PDLA::DiskCache|PDLA::DiskCache>

Manage many piddles through a disk cache.

=item L<PDLA::CallExt|PDLA::CallExt>

Call external functions.

=item L<PDLA::Objects|PDLA::Objects>

If you want to sub-class from PDLA (note: incomplete).

=back




=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2010 Daniel Carrera (dcarrera@gmail.com). You can distribute
and/or modify this document under the same terms as the current Perl
license.

See: http://dev.perl.org/licenses/
