=head1 NAME

Uniden::BC75XLT - module to program Uniden BC75XLT radio scanner over
USB connection

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Uniden::BC75XLT;
 use Data::Dumper;

 my $radio = Uniden::BC75XLT->new('/dev/ttyUSB0') || die "Cannot open radio: $!\n";
   
 #  get channels info in bank N1
 my $channelsInfo = $radio->getBankChannelsInfo(1);
 print Dumper($channelsInfo);
   
 undef($radio);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Module implements all command described in
UNIDEN BC75XLT Operation Specification
(http://info.uniden.com/UnidenMan4/BC75XLT).

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=head2 PACKAGE-E<gt>new(DEVICE_STR, OPTS_HASH)

Creates new Uniden::BC75XLT object. Where C<DEVICE_STR> is port name and 
C<OPTS_HASH> is a hash with following keys:

=over 3

=item *

B<baudrate> - integer, port speed, default - 57600

=item *

B<databits> - integer, number of data bits in each character, default - 8

=item *

B<parity> - string, method of detecting errors in transmission, default - "none"

=item *

B<stopbits> - integer, stop bits, default - 1

=item *

B<handshake> - string, handshake method, default - "none"

=item *

B<read_cost_time> - integer, const time for read (milliseconds), default - 1

=item * 

B<timeout> - integer, reading port timeout in milliseconds, default - 999

=item *

B<echo> - boolean, if true all data sent to and received from port will be sent
to STDERR

=item *

B<fatal> - boolean, if set to true all errors are regarded as fatal and C<die>
will be called on them, otherwise error message invokes print to STDERR and
C<undef> will be returned after error.

=back

More accurate meaning and possible values of keys B<baudrate>, B<databits>, 
B<parity>, B<stopbits>, B<handshake> and B<read_cost_time> you can find in 
L<Device::SerialPort> documentation.

B<Example>:

 my $radio = Uniden::BC75XLT->new('/dev/ttyUSB0', echo => 1) || die "Cannot open: $!\n";

=head1 METHODS

=head2 command(CMD_STR, ARGS_ARRAYREF)

Method send command C<CMD_STR> to radio scanner with arguments C<ARGS_ARRAYREF>.
Arguments array may be undefined.

Normally you do not need to use this method 'cause other methods are frontends
to this method and cover all described in operation manual commands.

Method returns C<HASHREF> with following keys:

=over 3

=item *

B<status> - string, B<OK> - if command executed successfully and B<ERROR> if 
something was wrong

=item *

B<desc> - string, if B<status> has value B<ERROR> this key contains
description of error occurred

=item *

B<data> - arrayref of strings, if B<status> has value B<OK> this key 
contains data returned by radio. Arrayref always defined even no data
supposed to be returned.

=back

=head2 getModelName

Method returns model name.

=head2 getFirmwareVersion

Method returns firmware version.

=head2 getVolume

Method returns volume level (0-15)

=head2 setVolume(VOL_INT)

Method set volume level value (VOL_INT). Reasonable values 0-15.

=head2 getSql

Method returns Sql value (0-15)

=head2 setSql(SQL_INT)

Method set Sql value (SQL_INT). Reasonable values 0-15.

=head2 setProgramMode

The scanner goes to Program Mode (PGM). The scanner displays "PC" and
Key lock and PGM icons.

Some command (almost all) must be executed in PGM of scanner. If 
you use methods of this package you do not need enter to PGM
manually. Each method "knows" how to communicate with scanner and if it 
needs PGM, it will enter to PGM before send command and exit after. But if you
want to send sequence of commands you may start PGM manually and quit it after
sequence is complete. It may save you some seconds.

=head2 quitProgramMode

The scanner exits from Program Mode.
Then the scanner goes to Scan Hold Mode.

You need to call this method only if you call C<setProgramMode> before.

=head2 getBandPlan

Returns band plan code - 0:USA, 1:Canada.

=head2 getBandPlanName

Returns band plan name - USA/CANADA.

=head2 setBandPlan(BANDPLAN)

Set band plane. C<BANDPLAN> can be integer - code or string - name.

B<Example>:

 $radio->setBandPlan('CANADA');
 $radio->setBandPlan(1);

=head2 getKeyLockState

Returns key lock state code - 0:OFF, 1:ON.

=head2 getKeyLockStateName

Returns key lock state name - OFF/ON.

=head2 setKeyLockState(STATE)

Set key lock state. C<STATE> can be integer - code or string - name.

B<Example>:

 $radio->setKeyLockState('OFF');
 $radio->setKeyLockState(0);

=head2 getPriorityMode

Returns priority mode code - 0:OFF, 1:ON, 2:PLUS ON, 3:DND.

=head2 getPriorityModeName

Returns priority mode name - OFF/ON/PLUS ON/DND.

=head2 setPriorityMode(MODE)

Set priority mode. C<MODE> can be integer - code or string - name.

B<Example>:

 $radio->setPriorityMode('DND');
 $radio->setPriorityMode(3);

=head2 getScanChannelGroup

Get current status of the channel storage bank select. 

Returns C<ARRAYREF> of 10 elements. Each element contains ON/OFF string. 
Every array element describes group with the same index in radio. 
But index of radio scanner groups starts with 1. So element with index 0 means
state of group with index 1.

=head2 setScanChannelGroup(GROUP_DATA)

Set current status of the channel storage bank select. 

If C<GROUP_DATA> is C<HASHREF> then keys mean to be index of radio scanner 
group and values are states of group. States can be strings - ON/OFF or integer
1:OFF/0:ON.

If C<GROUP_DATA>  is C<ARRAYREF> then every element is state of group with index
equals index of element plus 1. States can be strings - ON/OFF or integer
1:OFF/0:ON.

If C<GROUP_DATA> is a string it will be passed as argument to command ASIS.

B<Example>:

 # Set group 1,2,3,7,8,9 to ON state in Scan mode
 # all three lines are equivalents
 
 $radio->setScanChannelGroup([ 'ON', 'ON', 'ON', 'OFF', 'OFF', 'OFF', 'ON', 'ON', 'ON', 'OFF' ]);
 $radio->setScanChannelGroup({  1 => 'ON',  2 => 'ON', 3 => 'ON', 7 => 'ON', 8 => 'ON', 9 => 'ON' });
 $radio->setScanChannelGroup('0001110001');

=head2 setValidScanChannels(CHANNELS_ARRAYREF)

Set valid radio scanner groups in Scan mode. C<CHANNELS_ARRAYREF> is C<ARRAYREF>
of radio scanner group indexes.

B<Example>:

 # Set group 1,2,3,7,8,9 to ON state in Scan mode
 
 $radio->setValidScanChannels([1,2,3,7,8,9 ]);


=head2 getChannelInfo(N_INT)

Get stored channel information, C<N_INT> is number of channel, integer 
between 1..300.

Returns C<HASHREF> with keys:

=over 3

=item *

B<state> - status of channel: B<SET> or B<UNSET>.

=item *

B<index> - number of channel

=item *

B<freq> - stored frequency in human readable form, e.g. 128.0000

=item *

B<freq_code> - stored frequency as returned by radio scanner, e.g. '01280000'

=item *

B<delay> - is delay turned on - ON/OFF

=item *

B<delay_code> - is delay turned on code - 0:OFF/1:ON

=item *

B<lockout> - lockout - UNLOCKED/LOCKOUT 

=item *

B<lockout_code> - lockout code - 0:UNLOCKED/1:LOCKOUT

=item *

B<priority> - priority - ON/OFF

=item *

B<priority_code> - priority code - 0:OFF/1:ON

=back

B<Return example>:

 {
   'priority' => 'ON',
   'delay_code' => '1',
   'delay' => 'ON',
   'freq_code' => '00271350',
   'lockout' => 'UNLOCKED',
   'state' => 'SET',
   'index' => '61',
   'lockout_code' => '0',
   'freq' => '27.1350',
   'priority_code' => '1'
 };

=head2 getChannelsInfo(OPTS_HASH)

Retrieve information about stored channels. 

C<OPTS_HASH> has keys:

=over 3

=item *

B<start> - index of first channel

=item *

B<stop> - index of last channels

=item *

B<state> - status of channels to show. Possible values ON, OFF, 1, 0. If not 
set all channels will be selected.

=back

Returns C<ARRAYREF> each element is C<HASHREF> with information about channel
described in method C<getChannelInfo>.

B<Example>:

 # get information about channels 60..70 in ON state 
 
 $radio->getChannelsInfo(start => 60, stop => 70, status => 'ON');

 # get all channels information

 $radio->getChannelsInfo();

=head2 getBankChannelsInfo(N_INT)

Gets information about channel in a bank. C<N_INT> is index of channels
bank, 1..10.

Returns C<ARRAYREF> each element is C<HASHREF> with information about channel
described in method C<getChannelInfo>.

B<Example>:

 $radio->getBankChannelsInfo(5);

=head2 setChannelInfo(IDX_INT, DATA_HASHREF)

Store frequency in to the channel. C<IDX_INT> - integer, index of channel
(1..300).

C<DATA_HASHREF> is C<HASHREF>, information about stored frequency with keys:

=over 3

=item *

B<freq> - frequency

=item *

B<delay> - delay ON/OFF.

=item *

B<priority> - priotity - ON/OFF.

=item *

B<lockout> - lockout - UNLOCKED/LOCKOUT.

=back

B<Example>:

 $radio->setChannelInfo(61, { freq => '27.135' }); # set channel 
 $radio->setChannelInfo(61, { freq => '' }); # unset channel

=head2 eraseChannel(IDX_INT)

Erase information stored in channel. C<IDX_INT> - integer, index of channel.

=head2 getSearchCloseCallSettings

Get Search Close Call Settings.

Returns C<HASHREF> with keys:

=over 3

=item *

B<direction> - search direction: DOWN/UP.

=item *

B<direction_code> search direction code: 1:DOWN/0:UP.

=item *

B<delay> - delay: ON/OFF.

=item *

B<delay_code> - delay code: 1:ON/0:OFF.

=back

=head2 setSearchCloseCallSettings(OPTS_HASHREF)

Set Search Close Call Settings.

C<OPTS_HASHREF> is C<HASHREF> with keys:

=over 3

=item *

B<direction> - search direction: 0, 1 or 'UP', 'DOWN'.

=item *

B<delay> - delay: 0, 1 or 'OFF', 'ON'

=back

=head2 getGlobalLockoutFreqs

Get list of global lockout frequencies. List returned as an C<ARRAYREF>.

=head2 lockGlobalFrequency(FREQ)

Locks out frequency. C<FREQ> is frequency value as string of float or integer.

B<Example>:

 $radio->lockGlobalFrequency('27.000');
 $radio->lockGlobalFrequency(27);

=head2 unlockGlobalFrequency(FREQ)

Unlocks a lockout frequency. C<FREQ> is frequency value as string of float or integer.

=head2 getCloseCallSettings

Get close call settings.

Returns C<HASHREF> with keys:

=over 3

=item *

B<mode> - current CC mode: OFF/PRIORITY/DND

=item *

B<mode_code> - current CC mode code: 0:OFF/1:PRIORITY/2:DND

=item *

B<alert_beep> - beep alarm when CC is found: ON/OFF 

=item *

B<alert_beep_code> - beep alarm when CC is found code: 1:ON/0:OFF 


=item *

B<alert_light> - alarm with light when CC is found: ON/OFF

=item *

B<alert_light_code> - alarm with light when CC is found code: 1:ON/0:OFF

=item *

B<bands> - state of preset bands in Close Call RF mode. There are 4 bands:
B<VHF_LOW>, B<AIR>, B<VHF_HIGH> and B<UHF>. They are keys in B<bands>
C<HASHREF>, possible values: ON/OFF.

=back

=head2 setCloseCallSettings(OPTS_HASHREF)

Set close call settings.

B<OPTS_HASHREF> is C<HASHREF> with keys:

=over 3

=item *

B<mode> - Close Call RF mode - 0,1,3 or OFF, PRIORITY, DND

=item *

B<alert_beep> - alert with beep settings: 0, 1 or OFF, ON

=item *

B<alert_light> - alert with light settings: 0, 1 or OFF, ON

=item *

B<bands> - list of available bands in Close Call RF mode. C<ARRAYREF> each element
is band name to be set to ON state.

=back

All keys are optional. By default B<mode> is set in DND, all B<alerts> are OFF,
all B<bands> are ON.

=head2 getServiceSearchSettings(BAND)

Returns information about Service Search settings. C<BAND_INT> is index or
name of one of 10 Service frequencies ranges. 

Ranges: 1:WX -Weather, 2:POLICE - Police, 3:FIRE - Fire/Emergency,
4:MARINE - Marine, 5:RACE - Racing, 6:AIR - Civil Air, 7:HAM - HAM Radio,
8:RAIL - Railroad, 9:CB - CB Radio, 10:OTHER - FRS/GMRS/MRUS.

Return value is C<HASHREF> with keys:

=over 3

=item *

B<index> - index of freq range (1..10)

=item *

B<band> - name for freq range

=item *

B<delay> - delay: ON/OFF.

=item *

B<delay_code> - delay code: 1:ON/0:OFF.

=item *

B<direction> - direction of search: UP/DOWN.

=item *

B<direction_code> - direction of search code: 0:UP/1:DOWN.

=back

=head2 setServiceSearchSettings(BAND, DLY, DIR)

Set Service search freq range settings. C<BAND> index or name of search range.
C<DLY> - delay code or name - 1:ON/0:OFF. C<DIR> - direction of search 
- 0:UP/1:DOWN.

=head2 getCustomSearchGroup

Returns state of Custom Search frequencies groups and Custom Search settings.
Return value is C<HASHREF> with keys:

=over 3

=item *

B<group> -  C<ARRAYREF> of 10 elements. Each element contains ON/OFF string.
Every array element describes group with the same index in radio.
But index of radio scanner groups starts with 1. So element with index 0 means
state of group with index 1.

=item *

B<delay> - delay: ON/OFF.

=item *

B<delay_code> - delay code: 1:ON/0:OFF.

=item *

B<direction> - direction of search: UP/DOWN.

=item *

B<direction_code> - direction of search code: 0:UP/1:DOWN.

=back

=head2 setCustomSearchGroup(GROUPS, DLY, DIR)

Set state of frequencies groups in Custom Search mode. 

C<GROUPS> - C<HASHREF> or C<ARRAYREF> - describes states of freq group. 
If you use C<ARRAYREF> you should set 10 elements array every element must 
contain string ON or OFF. In C<HASHREF> representation keys are index of groups, 
values are state. If group state was not present in C<HASH> its state would
be set to OFF.

C<DLY> - delay code or name - 1:ON/0:OFF.

C<DIR> - direction of search 
- 0:UP/1:DOWN.

=head2 getCustomSearchRange(RANGE_INT)

Radio scanner has 10 Custom Search frequency ranges. This method retrieve 
left and right bound of range.

C<RANGE_INT> - integer, index of range.

Return value is an C<ARRAYREF> of 2 elements. First is left bound,
second is right.

=head2 getAllCustomSearchRanges

Returns all ten ranges bounds as C<ARRAYREF> every element contains 
two elements C<ARRAYREF> where first element is left bound and second is right.

=head2 setCustomSearchRange(RANGE_INT, LEFT, RIGHT)

Set bounds of frequency range.

B<RANGE_INT> - index of range. 1..10

B<LEFT> - frequency value - left bound of range

B<RIGHT> - frequency value - right bound of range

B<Example>:
 
 $radio->setCustomSearchRange(3, '144.0000', '147.9950');
 $radio->setCustomSearchRange(3, 144, 147.995);

=head2 clearMemory

Clear all radio memory. Not tested :)

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Device::SerialPort>

=cut

