=pod

=head1 NAME

ALPM::DB::Sync - Synchronized remote databases.

=head1 OBJECT METHODS

=head2 servers

  $SUCCESS = $DB->add_server($URL)
  $SUCCESS = $DB->remove_server($URL)
  $SUCCESS = $DB->set_servers(@URLS)
  @URLS = $DB->get_servers()

A plethora of accessors and mutators for the repo URLs of databases.

=over 4

=item C<$URL>

The base url where database files are publicly available.

=item C<@URLS>

Like $URL, only more so.

=item C<$SUCCESS>

Returns 1 on success, undef on failure.

=back

=head2 update

  $UPDATE_STATUS = $DB->update()
  $SUCCESS = $DB->force_update()

Updating the database is like pacman -Su. Forcing an update will download a new
copy of the database even if it seems that we do not need to.

=over 4

=item C<$UPDATE_STATUS>

Returns 1 on success, -1 if the update was unnecessary, or 0 on error.

=item C<SUCCESS>

Returns 1 on success or 0 on error.

=back

=head1 valid

  $VALID = $DB->valid()

Perform validity checks upon the database, such as a signature check.

=head1 siglvl

  $SIGLEVEL = $DB->siglvl()

Retrieve the signature level requirements that package and database files of this database
must fulfill.

=head1 unregister

  $SUCCESS = $DB->unregister()

Unregister the sync database. You probably shouldn't try to use the $DB object
anymore. Right now there are no safety checks.

=over 4

=item C<$SUCCESS>

Returns 1 on success or undef on error.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ALPM::DB>, L<ALPM>, L<ALPM::Package>

=head1 AUTHOR

Justin Davis, C<< <juster at cpan dot org> >>

Andrew Gregory <apg@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2015 by Justin Davis

Copyright (C) 2015 by Andrew Gregory <apg@cpan.org>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.10.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.
