=head1 NAME

Class::NonOO - Use methods as functions with an implicit singleton

=head1 VERSION

v0.4.1

=head1 SYNOPSYS

In a module:

  package MyModule;

  use Class::NonOO;

  ...

  sub my_method {
     my ($self, @args) = @_;
     ...
  }

  as_function
    export => [ 'my_method' ], # methods to export
    args   => [ ];             # constructor args

The module can be be used with a function calling style:

  use MyModule;

  ...

  my_method(@args);

=head1 INSTALLATION

See
L<How to install CPAN modules|http://www.cpan.org/modules/INSTALL.html>.

=head2 Required Modules

This distribution requires Perl v5.10.1.

This distribution requires the following modules:

=over 4

=item * L<List::MoreUtils>

=item * L<Package::Stash>

=item * L<Test::Most>

=back

This distribution recommends the following modules:

=over 4

=item * L<Package::Stash::XS>

=back

=head1 RECENT CHANGES

=head2 Bug Fixes

=over 4

=item * 

Fix tests to work with older versions of Moo.

=back

=head2 Documentation

=over 4

=item * 

Update copyright year to 2016.

=back

See the F<Changes> file for a longer revision history.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module allows you to turn a class into a module that exports
methods as functions that use an implicit singleton.  This allows you
to provide a "hybrid" object-oriented/functional interface.

=head1 EXPORTS

=head2 C<as_function>

  as_function
    export      => [ ... ], # @EXPORT
    export_ok   => [ ... ], # @EXPORT_OK (optional)
    export_tags => { ... }, # %EXPORT_TAGS (optional)
    args        => [ ... ], # constructor args (optional)
    global      => 0;       # no global state (default)

This wraps methods in a function that checks the first argument. If
the argument is an instance of the class, then it assumes it is a
normal method call.  Otherwise it assumes it is a function call, and
it calls the method with the singleton instance.

If the C<export> option is omitted, it will default to the contents of
the C<@EXPORT> variable. The same holds for the C<export_ok> and
C<export_tags> options and the C<@EXPORT_OK> and C<%EXPORT_TAGS>
variables, respectively.

Note that this will not work properly on methods that take an instance
of the class as the first argument.

By default, there is no global state. That means that there is a
different implicit singleton for each namespace.  This offers some
protection when the state is changed in one module, so that it does
not affect the state in another module.

If you want to enable global state, you can set C<global> to a true
value.  This is not recommended for CPAN modules.

You might work around this by using something like

  local %MyClass::_DEFAULT_SINGLETONS;

but this is not recommended.  If you need to modify state and share it
across modules, you should be passing around individual objects
instead of singletons.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Class::Exporter> is a similar module.

=head1 AUTHOR

Robert Rothenberg, C<< <rrwo at cpan.org> >>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015-2016 Robert Rothenberg.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the the Artistic License (2.0). You may obtain a
copy of the full license at:

L<http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>

