=head1 NAME

Nuggit

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Nuggit is a wrapper for git that makes repositories consisting of submodules (or nested submodules) 
work more like mono-repositories.  This is, in part, achieved by doing work on the same branch across
all submodules and taking the approproate action when submodules are modified, added, pushed, pulled
etc. without requring the user to do extra magic just for submodules.

A wrapper script. "ngt" can be used to invoke all of the capabilities
defined below.  Tab auto-completion is optionally available for this
wrapper if configured for your shell by sourcing 'nuggit.sh' or 'nuggit.csh' files.  These scripts will explicitly add this repository to your system path.

Sourcing 'nuggit.sh' or 'nuggit.csh' is required if nuggit has not been installed in the default system path.

Usage information for most scripts is available with a "--man" or
"--help"  parameter.  For example, "ngt --man" or "ngt status --man".  Documentation is also available via the 'man' command on supported systems when installed using cpan.


=head1 Color Configuration

The Nuggit scripts utilize ANSI terminal colors to clarify message
output.  Output generally uses custom alias classes of 'error',
'warn', 'info', and 'success'.

Environment variables can be used to disable colored output entirely,
or to customize the color scheme for personal preferences.  See
https://perldoc.perl.org/Term::ANSIColor#ENVIRONMENT for details.


=head1 SEE ALSO

nuggit-clone(1), nuggit-status(1), nuggit-checkout(1), nuggit-merge(1), nuggit-rebase(1), nuggit-ops(1), nuggit-add(1), nuggit-branch(1), nuggit-commit(1), nuggit-diff(1), nuggit-fetch(), nuggit-foreach(1), nuggit-log(1), nuggit-mv(1), nuggit-push(1), nuggit-reset(1), nuggit-rm(1), git(1)
