package Test::WWW::Selenium::More::Manual;


__END__
=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Test::WWW::Selenium::More::Manual

=head1 NAME

Test::WWW::Selenium::More::Manual - Testing with Selenium

=head1 INTRODUCTION

Test-WWW-Selenium is a test library that enables you to write user interface
tests for your web application.  You can fill out forms, click buttons and
links, and generally control any supported browser from your Perl tests.  

It works by sending commands to a Selenium server via HTTP GET/POST requests.
The Selenium server spawns a browser and controls it using using JavaScript.

You can also watch your tests interacting with your web application in the
browser.

=head1 TABLE OF CONTENTS

=over 4

=item L<Test::WWW::Selenium::More::Manual::ForTheImpatient>

Selenium testing for the impatient:  A short example demonstrating writing
and running Perl Selenium tests.

=item L<Test::WWW::Selenium::More::Manual::InstallingSelenium>

How to install Selenium.

=item L<Test::WWW::Selenium::More::Manual::WritingTests>

How to write Selenium tests.  Includes examples.

=item L<Test::WWW::Selenium::More::Manual::RunningTests>

How to run Selenium tests.  Walk through several common scenarios
including headless tests and slow tests.

=item L<Test::WWW::Selenium::More::Manual::BestPractices>

Avoid the most common mistakes.  

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Eric Johnson <kablamo at iijo dot nospamthanks dot org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2012 by Eric Johnson.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut

