# PODNAME: Config::Model::models::LCDd::serialVFD
# ABSTRACT:  Configuration class LCDd::serialVFD

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Config::Model::models::LCDd::serialVFD - Configuration class LCDd::serialVFD

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Configuration classes used by L<Config::Model>

generated from LCDd.conf

=head1 Elements

=head2 Brightness

Set the initial brightness 
(4 steps 0-250, 251-500, 501-750, 751-1000) I< Optional. Type integer.  > 

=over 4

=item upstream_default value :

1000

=back



=head2 Device

Device to use in serial mode. Usual values are /dev/ttyS0 and /dev/ttyS1. I< Optional. Type uniline.  > 

=over 4

=item default value :

/dev/ttyS1

=back



=head2 ISO_8859_1

enable ISO 8859 1 compatibility I< Optional. Type boolean.  > 

=over 4

=item upstream_default value :

yes

=back



=head2 OffBrightness

Set the initial off-brightness 
This value is used when the display is normally
switched off in case LCDd is inactive
(4 steps 0-250, 251-500, 501-750, 751-1000) I< Optional. Type integer.  > 

=over 4

=item upstream_default value :

0

=back



=head2 Port

Number of Custom-Characters. default is display type dependent
Custom-Characters=0
Portaddress where the LPT is. Used in parallel mode only. Usual values are
0x278, 0x378 and 0x3BC. I< Optional. Type uniline.  > 

=over 4

=item default value :

0x378

=back



=head2 PortWait

Set parallel port timing delay (us). Used in parallel mode only. I< Optional. Type integer.  > 

=over 4

=item upstream_default value :

2

=back



=head2 Size

Specifies the size of the VFD. I< Optional. Type uniline.  > 

=over 4

=item default value :

20x2

=back



=head2 Speed

set the serial port speed I< Optional. Type enum. choice: '1200', '2400', '9600', '19200', '115200'.  > 

=over 4

=item upstream_default value :

9600

=back



=head2 Type

Specifies the displaytype.
0 NEC (FIPC8367 based) VFDs.
1 KD Rev 2.1.
2 Noritake VFDs (*).
3 Futaba VFDs
4 IEE S03601-95B
5 IEE S03601-96-080 (*)
6 Futaba NA202SD08FA (allmost IEE compatible)
7 Samsung 20S207DA4 and 20S207DA6
8 Nixdorf BA6x / VT100
(* most should work, not tested yet.) I< Optional. Type uniline.  > 

=over 4

=item upstream_default value :

0

=back



=head2 use_parallel

"no" if display connected serial, "yes" if connected parallel. 
I.e. serial by default. I< Optional. Type uniline.  > 

=over 4

=item upstream_default value :

no

=back



=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item *

L<cme>

=back

=cut

