=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OODoc::Examples - check the generated output

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # Not code

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This manual page does not produce any code, and does not document OODoc:
it lists various existing constructs supported by the Markov parser
(L<OODoc::Parser::Markov|OODoc::Parser::Markov>), to check whether the produced output
(POD, HTML or generated via Export) from OODoc is correct.

It is really useful to look at the source of this page on github, metacpan,
or in the distribution.
L<https://github.com/markov2/perl5-OODoc/blob/master/lib/OODoc/Examples.pm>

=head1 METHODS

The chapter names which you can use in the manual-pages are restricted.  Only
with "podtail", you may add some of your own at the end of the generated
manual-page.

=head2 Subroutine calls

These are the various code entry points, where C<tie> and C<overload> are
weird outliers.

=over 4

=item overload: B<""> (stringify)

Z<>

=item tie B<%hash>, $class, %options

Z<>

=item $any-E<gt>B<classInstanceMethod>(%options)

Z<>

=item $class-E<gt>B<classMethod>(%options)

Z<>

=item B<function_name>(%options)

Z<>

=item $obj-E<gt>B<instanceMethod>(%options)

Z<>

=item $obj-E<gt>B<instanceMethod2>(%options)

Z<>

=back

=head2 Subroutine description

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<subr>(%options)

Some descriptive text.

 -Option     --Default
  is_optional  "my default"
  is_required  <required>

=over 2

=item is_optional => STRING

This is an optional argument.

=item is_required => STRING

This is a required argument.

=back

» example: first example

This is an example for subroutine 'subr'.

» example: another example

This is another example for subroutine 'subr'.

=back

=head2 Subroutine references

The C<M> tag can be used to make references to Methods (functions, ...)
and even parameters and options of them.  Much more fine-grained than
standard PerlPod.  This does understand inheritance.

=over 4

=item * L<subr()|OODoc::Examples/"Subroutine description">; refers to method subr

=item * L<subr(is_optional)|OODoc::Examples/"Subroutine description">; refers to option C<is_optional> of method subr

=back

These may also be in other manual-pages:

=over 4

=item * L<OODoc::finalize()|OODoc/"Actions">; refers to a method in a different manual

=item * L<OODoc::processFiles(version)|OODoc/"Parser">; refers to an option of a method in another manual

=back

=head2 Blocks

This is a section, within chapter METHODS.

=head3 SubSection

This is a subsection.

=head4 SubSubSection

This is a subsubsection.

=head2 Block references

In-page links:

=over 4

=item * L</"METHODS">, links to chapter METHODS

=item * L</"Blocks">, links to section Blocks

=item * L</"SubSection">, links to SubSection

=item * L</"SubSubSection">, links to SubSubSection

=item * L<https://ibm.com>, links to external webpage

=back

In-page links, but now with alternative text:

=over 4

=item * L<TEXT|/"METHODS">, links to chapter METHODS

=item * L<TEXT|/"Blocks">, links to section Blocks

=item * L<TEXT|/"SubSection">, links to SubSection

=item * L<TEXT|/"SubSubSection">, links to SubSubSection

=item * L<TEXT|https://ibm.com>, links to external webpage

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Error: oops, something went wrong

Errors reflect problems in the running code.
Cast by C<subr()>

=item Fault: ouch, that hurts; system fault: $!

Faults are system errors which make it into errors.
Cast by C<subr()>

=item Info: transfer completed

Info statements usually show at verbose runs, to elaborate on
steps made.
Cast by C<subr()>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of OODoc version 3.05,
built on December 22, 2025. Website: F<https://perl.overmeer.net/oodoc/>

=head1 LICENSE

For contributors see file ChangeLog.

This software is copyright (c) 2003-2025 by Mark Overmeer.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

