=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

OODoc::Manual - one manual about a package

=head1 INHERITANCE

 OODoc::Manual
   is an OODoc::Object

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $doc    = OODoc->new(...);
  my $manual = OODoc::Manual->new(name => ..., source => ...);

  my $index  = $doc->index;
  my $manual = $index->findManual($name);
  my @manual = $index->manualsForPackage('Mail::Box');

  print $manual->name;
  print $manual->package;
  print $manual->overview;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<OODoc::Manual> object contains information of a singel manual page.
More than one manual can be related to a single package.

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in OODoc::Object|OODoc::Object/"DESCRIPTION">.

=head1 OVERLOADED

Extends L<"OVERLOADED" in OODoc::Object|OODoc::Object/"OVERLOADED">.

=over 4

=item overload: B<'!='> (numeric different)

Inherited, see L<OODoc::Object/"OVERLOADED">

=item overload: B<'=='> (numeric equivalent)

Inherited, see L<OODoc::Object/"OVERLOADED">

=item overload: B<'bool'> 

Inherited, see L<OODoc::Object/"OVERLOADED">

=item overload: B<cmp> 

String comparison takes place between a manual name and another
manual name which may be a manual object or any other string or
stringifyable object.

example: 

  if($manual eq 'OODoc') ...
  if($man1 eq $man2) ...
  my @sorted = sort @manuals;    # implicit calls to cmp

=item overload: B<stringification> 

Used in string context, a manual produces its name.

=back

=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in OODoc::Object|OODoc::Object/"METHODS">.

=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in OODoc::Object|OODoc::Object/"Constructors">.

=over 4

=item $class-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

Inherited, see L<OODoc::Object/"Constructors">

 -Option      --Default
  distribution  <required>
  index         <required>
  package       <required>
  parser        <required>
  pure_pod      false
  source        <required>
  stripped      undef
  version       <required>

=over 2

=item distribution => STRING

=item index => OODoc::Index

[2.01] Needed for see which packages belong to this manual.

=item package => STRING

The name of the package which is described by this manual.

=item parser => OBJECT

The parser which produces this manual page.  This parameter is needed
to be able to low-level format the text blocks.

=item pure_pod => BOOLEAN

Some documentation is stored in files which look like a module,
but do not contain any code.  Their filenames usually end with F<.pod>.

=item source => STRING

The file where the manual was found in, or in some cases some other
string which explains where the data came from.

=item stripped => STRING

The file where the stripped code is written to.

=item version => STRING

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

Extends L<"Attributes" in OODoc::Object|OODoc::Object/"Attributes">.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<distribution>()

Returns the distribution which includes this manual.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<index>()

Z<>

=item $obj-E<gt>B<isPurePod>()

Returns whether this package has real code related to it.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<package>()

Returns the package of the manual.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<parser>()

Returns the parser which has produced this manual object.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<publish>(\%options)

Inherited, see L<OODoc::Object/"Attributes">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<source>()

Returns the source of this manual information.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<stripped>()

The name of the produced stripped package file.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<unique>()

Inherited, see L<OODoc::Object/"Attributes">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<version>()

Returns the version of this manual information.

=back

=head2 Collected

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<chapter>($name|$object)

When a C<$name> (a string) given, the chapter with that name is returned, or
C<undef> when it is not known.  With an C<$object>, that object is added to
the list of chapters.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<chapters>( [\@chapters] )

Returns the ordered LIST of chapter object for this manual.  Called with
an ARRAY will set a new list of chapters first.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<diagnostics>(%options)

All diagnostic messages of all chapters for this manual together.

 -Option--Default
  select  []

=over 2

=item select => ARRAY

Select only the diagnostic message of the specified types (case
insensitive).  Without any type, all are selected.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<examples>()

All examples of all chapters within this manual together, especially
useful for counting.

example: 

  print scalar $manual->examples;

=item $obj-E<gt>B<name>()

Returns the name of the manual, which is found in the NAME chapter.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<subroutine>($name)

Returns the subroutine with the specified C<$name> as object reference.  When
the manual is part of a package description which is spread over multiple
manuals, then these other manuals will be searched as well.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<subroutines>()

All subroutines of all chapters within this manual together, especially
useful for counting.

example: 

  print scalar $manual->subroutines;

=item $obj-E<gt>B<title>()

[2.03] Returns the description (the content of the NAME chapter).

=back

=head2 Inheritance knowledge

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<all>($method, $parameters)

Call L<OODoc::Text::Structure::all()|OODoc::Text::Structure/"Collected"> on all chapters, passing the C<$method>
and C<$parameters>.  In practice, this means that you can simply collect
kinds of information from various parts within the manual page.

example: 

  my @diags = $manual->all('diagnostics');

=item $obj-E<gt>B<extraCode>()

Returns a list of manuals which contain extra code for this package.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<inherited>($subroutine|$option)

Returns whether the C<$subroutine> or C<$option> was defined by this manual page,
or inherited from it.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<ownSubroutines>()

Returns only the subroutines which are described in this manual page
itself.  L<subroutines()|OODoc::Manual/"Collected"> returns them all.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<realizers>( [$packages] )

Returns a list of packages which can realize into this object
using Object::Realize::Later magic.  When C<$packages> (names or objects)
are specified, they are added first.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<realizes>( [$package] )

Returns the class into which this class can be realized.  This is
a trick of the Object::Realize::Later module.  The C<$package> (name or
object) will be set first, if specified.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<subClasses>( [$packages] )

Returns the names of all sub-classes (extensions) of this package.
When C<$packages> (names or objects) are specified, they are first added
to the list.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<superClasses>( [$packages] )

Returns the super classes for this package.

Provided C<$packages> (names or objects) will be added to the list
of superclasses first.

=back

=head2 Processing

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<collectPackageRelations>()

Z<>

=item $obj-E<gt>B<createInheritance>()

Create the text which represents the inheritance relationships of
a certain package.  More than one MANUAL can be defined for one
package, and will each produce the same text.  The returned string
still has to be cleaned-up before inclusion.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<expand>()

Add the information of lower level manuals into this one.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<finalize>(%options)

[3.01] The manual processor gets a last chance to work on the document.

All C<%options> are passed to L<OODoc::Parser::Markov::finalizeManual()|OODoc::Parser::Markov/"Producing manuals">.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<mergeStructure>(%options)

Merge two lists of structured text objects: the C<this> and C<super> lists.
The C<this> objects are defined on this level of inheritance, where the
C<super> objects are from an inheritence level higher (super class).
The combined list is returned, where the inherited objects are
preferably included before the new ones.

Merging is a complicated task, because the order of both lists should be
kept as well as possible.

 -Option   --Default
  container  <required>
  equal      sub {"$_[0]" eq "$_[1]"}
  merge      sub {$_[0]}
  super      +[]
  this       +[]

=over 2

=item container => OBJECT

The object which administers this level of documentation nesting,
which may be a manual, chapter, and such.

=item equal => CODE

Define how can be determined that two objects are the same.  By default,
the stringification of both objects are compared.

=item merge => CODE

What to call if both lists contain the same object.  These two objects
will be passed as argument to the code reference. By default, the second
gets ignored.

=item super => ARRAY

=item this => ARRAY

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<mostDetailedLocation>($object)

The C<$object> (a text element) is located in some subsection, section or
chapter.  But the C<$object> may also be an extension to a piece of
documentation which is described in a super class with a location in
more detail.  The most detailed location for the description is returned.

=back

=head2 Tracing

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<overview>()

[2.01] Returns a string which can be used as index of headings used in this
manual page.

example: 

  print $manual->overview;

=item $obj-E<gt>B<stats>()

Returns a string which displays some stats about the manual.

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Error: No chapter NAME in scope of package $pkg in $file

Each documentation part requires a chapter "NAME" which starts with
the manual name followed by a dash.  Apparently, this was not found
in the indicated file.  This chapter description must be anywhere
after the package statement leading the name-space.
Cast by name()

=item Error: The NAME chapter does not have the right format in $file

The NAME chapter is used to figure-out what name the manual page must
have.  The standard format contains only one line, containing the
manual's name, one dash ('-'), and then a brief explanation. For instance:

  =chapter NAME
  OODoc::Manual - one manual about a package
Cast by name()

=item Error: no distribution is specified for manual $name

Cast by new()

=item Error: no source filename is specified for manual $name

You have to specify where you found the information for the manual.  This
does not need to be the name of an existing file, but usually it will be.
Cast by new()

=item Error: no version is specified for manual $name

Cast by new()

=item Warning: order conflict '$take' before '$insert' in $file line $linenr

The order of the objects in a sub-class shall be the same as that of
the super class, otherwise the result of merging of the information
received from both classes is undertermined.
Cast by mergeStructure()

=item Error: package name is not specified

You try to instantiate a manual, but have not specified the name
of the package which is described in this manual, which is required.
Cast by new()

=item Warning: section without location in $manual: $section

Cast by expand()

=item Warning: subroutine $name location conflict: $here and $there

Finding the optimal location to list a subroutine description is
a harsh job: information from various manual pages is being used.

It is not a problem to list the documentation of a certain method M
in module A in chapter "METHODS", section "General", subsection "X"
(which is abbreviated in the report as METHODS/General/X), and the
same method M in module A::B, which extends A, in chapter "METHODS"
without providing details about the section and subsection.  The in most
detail descripted location is used everywhere.

This warning means that the location of the method in this manual page
is not related to that of the same method in an other page.  For instance,
in the first page it is listed in chapter "METHODS", and in the second
in chapter "FUNCTIONS".
Cast by mostDetailedLocation()

=item Warning: subroutine '$name' location conflict:\n  $p1 in $man1\n  $p2 in $man2

Cast by mostDetailedLocation()

=item Error: two chapters named $name in $file line $line1 and $line2

The indicated file contains two chapters with the same name, which
is not permitted.  Join the contents of both parts.
Cast by chapter()

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of OODoc version 3.04,
built on September 12, 2025. Website: F<https://perl.overmeer.net/oodoc/>

=head1 LICENSE

For contributors see file ChangeLog.

This software is copyright (c) 2003-2025 by Mark Overmeer.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

