# PODNAME: DBIO::Manual::DocMap
# ABSTRACT: Guide to the DBIO documentation set

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

DBIO::Manual::DocMap - Guide to the DBIO documentation set

=head1 VERSION

version 0.900000

=head1 Manuals

=over 4

=item L<DBIO::Manual> - User's Manual overview.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::QuickStart> - Up and running with DBIO in 10 minutes.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::Heritage> - Everything that changed from DBIx::Class to DBIO.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::Migration> - Step-by-step migration of an existing DBIx::Class codebase.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::Intro> - More detailed introduction to setting up and using DBIO.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::SQLHackers> - How to use DBIO if you know SQL (external, available on CPAN)

=item L<DBIO::Manual::Joining> - Joining tables with DBIO.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::Features> - Feature overview with links into the API and manuals.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::Glossary> - What do all those terms mean?

=item L<DBIO::Manual::Cookbook> - Various short recipes on how to do things.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::FAQ> - Frequently Asked Questions.

=item L<DBIO::Manual::Troubleshooting> - What to do if things go wrong (diagnostics of known error messages).

=back

=head1 Driver distributions

Database-specific storage implementations are split into dedicated
distributions. Install the driver distribution that matches your backend:

=over 4

=item L<DBIO::PostgreSQL> (distribution: C<DBIO-PostgreSQL>)

=item L<DBIO::MySQL> (distribution: C<DBIO-MySQL>)

=item L<DBIO::SQLite> (distribution: C<DBIO-SQLite>)

=back

Additional driver distributions exist for other databases as the wider DBIO
ecosystem continues to split out of the old monolithic layout.

=head1 Core capabilities

Some important capabilities live in the core distribution rather than in a
database-specific driver:

=over 4

=item L<DBIO::Replicated> - Replicated storage support in DBIO core.

=item L<DBIO::Test> - Shared test harness for DBIO and driver distributions.

=back

=head1 Some essential reference documentation

The first two list items are the most important.

=over 4

=item L<DBIO::ResultSet/search> - Selecting and manipulating sets.

The DSL (mini-language) for query composition is only partially explained there,
see L<SQL::Abstract/WHERE CLAUSES> for the complete details.

=item L<C<$schema>::Result::C<$resultclass>|DBIO::Manual::ResultClass>
- Classes representing a single result (row) from a DB query.

Such classes normally subclass L<DBIO::Core>, the methods inherited
from L<DBIO::Row|DBIO::Row/METHODS> and
L<DBIO::Relationship::Base|DBIO::Relationship::Base/METHODS>
are used most often.

=item L<DBIO::ResultSetColumn> - Perform operations on a single column of a ResultSet.

=item L<DBIO::ResultSource> - Source/Table definition functions.

=item L<DBIO::Schema> - Overall sources, and connection container.

=item L<DBIO::Relationship> - Simple relationship declarations.

=item L<DBIO::Relationship::Base> - Relationship declaration details.

=item L<DBIO::InflateColumn> - Making objects out of your column values.

=back

=head1 Command-line tools

=over 4

=item L<dbioadmin> - Schema administration: deploy, upgrade, create DDL diffs,
and run select/insert/update/delete against a live schema. Thin CLI frontend
for L<DBIO::Admin>.

=item L<dbiogen> - Connect to a database, introspect the schema, and generate
DBIO Result class files. Supports Vanilla, Candy, and Cake output styles.
Uses L<DBIO::Generate>.

=back

=head1 Examples and benchmarks

The F<examples/> directory in the distribution contains runnable code:

=over 4

=item F<examples/Schema/> - Artist/CD/Track schema in Vanilla, Candy, and Cake
style with F<insertdb.pl> and F<testdb.pl>. Pass the schema name as an
argument: C<perl testdb.pl SchemaCandy>

=item F<examples/Benchmarks/benchmark_datafetch.pl> - Row fetch performance
using L<DBIO::ResultClass::HashRefInflator>.

=item F<examples/Benchmarks/benchmark_hashrefinflator.pl> - HashRefInflator
implementation comparison.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

DBIO & DBIx::Class Authors

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2026 DBIO Authors
Portions Copyright (C) 2005-2025 DBIx::Class Authors
Based on DBIx::Class, heavily modified.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
