# PODNAME: DBIO::Manual::Heritage
# ABSTRACT: Everything that changed from DBIx::Class to DBIO

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

DBIO::Manual::Heritage - Everything that changed from DBIx::Class to DBIO

=head1 VERSION

version 0.900000

=head1 OVERVIEW

DBIO is a fork of L<DBIx::Class>. It retains the relational-mapping model
and most of the API surface, but replaces, extends, and integrates a
significant number of components. This document is the definitive reference
for everyone migrating from DBIx::Class, or anyone who needs to understand
what DBIO is relative to its ancestor.

=head2 Naming

B<DBIO> stands for I<DBI Objects>. The namespace C<DBIO::> replaces
C<DBIx::Class::> throughout. Every module, every test, every tool has been
renamed accordingly.

DBIO is a clean break - there is no runtime C<DBIx::Class> compatibility
shim. Existing code is migrated by mechanical rename (C<DBIx::Class::*>
to C<DBIO::*>) plus the targeted API updates listed in
L<DBIO::Manual::Migration>.

=head1 FUNDAMENTAL ARCHITECTURE CHANGES

=head2 DBIO::Base - the new meta-infrastructure base

DBIx::Class distributed its meta-level machinery across several internal
packages. DBIO consolidates it into L<DBIO::Base>, which every internal
class uses as its root:

=over 4

=item C<use mro 'c3'> - MRO forced to C3 for the entire inheritance tree

=item L<DBIO::Componentised> - the C<load_components()> machinery

=item L<Class::Accessor::Grouped> - C<mk_group_accessors()>

=item Perl subroutine attributes via C<MODIFY_CODE_ATTRIBUTES>

=item C<_skip_namespace_frames> for clean stack traces

=back

B<Do not use C<DBIO::Base> directly in application code.> It is the
machinery that everything else stands on. For your Result classes use
L<DBIO::Core>; for ResultSet classes use L<DBIO::ResultSet>; for schema
classes use L<DBIO::Schema>.

=head2 SQL::Abstract replaces SQL::Abstract::Classic

DBIx::Class depended on L<SQL::Abstract::Classic>, an older fork.
DBIO uses the canonical L<SQL::Abstract> (>= 1.99) instead. The query API
is compatible; the internal extensions required small adjustments in the
SQLMaker layer.

=head2 apply_limit replaces limit_dialect

DBIx::Class used a C<sql_limit_dialect> string and an C<emulate_limit()>
dispatch table inside the storage layer. DBIO removes both. Each driver's
SQLMaker subclass provides an C<apply_limit($sql, $rows, $offset)> method
instead. The default implementation emits C<LIMIT ? OFFSET ?>.

If you had custom C<emulate_limit()> overrides, override C<apply_limit>
on your SQLMaker subclass.

=head2 Driver distributions split out of core

All database-specific storage classes have been removed from the DBIO core
distribution and moved into dedicated CPAN distributions:

  DBIO-PostgreSQL    DBIO::PostgreSQL    (most advanced: pg_catalog introspect,
                                          enums, schemas, RLS, indexes)
  DBIO-MySQL         DBIO::MySQL
  DBIO-SQLite        DBIO::SQLite
  DBIO-DuckDB        DBIO::DuckDB        (embedded analytical; UUID, Arrow,
                                          Appender, quack RPC)
  DBIO-DB2           DBIO::DB2
  DBIO-Firebird      DBIO::Firebird
  DBIO-Informix      DBIO::Informix
  DBIO-MSSQL         DBIO::MSSQL
  DBIO-Oracle        DBIO::Oracle
  DBIO-Sybase        DBIO::Sybase

Install only the driver you need. Every driver ships its own native
introspection, diff, and deploy modules (the test-and-compare strategy) and
does not require L<SQL::Translator>.

Two drivers also have non-blocking async variants whose queries return
C<Future> objects, and there is a GraphQL projection layer:

  DBIO-PostgreSQL-Async   DBIO::PostgreSQL::Async   (libpq via EV::Pg)
  DBIO-MySQL-Async        DBIO::MySQL::Async        (MariaDB via EV::MariaDB)
  DBIO-GraphQL            DBIO::GraphQL             (Result classes -> GraphQL)

=head2 Replicated storage is now in core

C<DBIx::Class::Replicated> was an external distribution. L<DBIO::Replicated>
ships in the core distribution. Load it as a Schema component; it forces
C<+DBIO::Replicated::Storage> and coordinates a master backend plus optional
replicants:

  package MyApp::Schema;
  use base 'DBIO::Schema';
  __PACKAGE__->load_components('DBIO::Replicated');

  my $schema = MyApp::Schema->connect($dsn, $user, $pass, {
      balancer_type => 'DBIO::Replicated::Balancer::First',
  });
  $schema->storage->connect_replicants([ $replica_dsn, $user, $pass ]);

Writes, transactions and deploy go through the master; reads are delegated to
the balancer (default C<DBIO::Replicated::Balancer::First>). The internals
live in L<DBIO::Replicated::Pool>, L<DBIO::Replicated::Backend>, and
L<DBIO::Replicated::Balancer>.

=head2 SQL::Translator is optional

Every driver ships its own native Deploy, Introspect, and Diff modules.
C<DBIO::Schema-E<gt>deploy()> checks the active storage class for a
C<dbio_deploy_class()> method; if present it routes to the native class,
which deploys by introspecting both the live database and the desired schema
and diffing the two models (test-and-compare). If a storage declares no
native class, C<deploy()> does not silently translate the schema for you: it
falls through to C<deployment_statements()>, which reads a pre-existing DDL
file and throws if none is present. Core's deploy path never calls
L<SQL::Translator>, so SQL::Translator is an optional dependency rather than a
required one.

=head1 RESULT CLASS STYLES

DBIx::Class had one way to write a Result class: the explicit
C<__PACKAGE__-E<gt>method()> style. DBIO keeps that (called I<Vanilla>)
and adds two sugar layers.

=head2 Vanilla (classic, unchanged API)

  package MyApp::Schema::Result::Artist;
  use base 'DBIO::Core';
  __PACKAGE__->table('artist');
  __PACKAGE__->add_columns(
      artistid => { data_type => 'integer', is_auto_increment => 1 },
      name     => { data_type => 'varchar', size => 100 },
  );
  __PACKAGE__->set_primary_key('artistid');
  __PACKAGE__->has_many(cds => 'MyApp::Schema::Result::CD', 'artistid');
  1;

See L<DBIO::Core> and L<DBIO::Manual::ResultClass>.

=head2 Candy (import-sugar, method renaming)

L<DBIO::Candy> removes the C<__PACKAGE__-E<gt>> boilerplate and exports
short aliases. It also infers the table name from the package name.

  package MyApp::Schema::Result::Artist;
  use DBIO::Candy;
  column artistid => { data_type => 'integer', is_auto_increment => 1 };
  column name     => { data_type => 'varchar', size => 100 };
  primary_key 'artistid';
  has_many cds => 'MyApp::Schema::Result::CD', 'artistid';
  1;

Key aliases exported by Candy:

  column             -> add_columns
  primary_key        -> set_primary_key
  unique_constraint  -> add_unique_constraint
  relationship       -> add_relationship

Candy is derived from C<DBIx::Class::Candy>, which has been integrated into
the core distribution.

=head2 Cake (DDL-like DSL - most concise)

L<DBIO::Cake> reads like schema DDL. Type functions (C<integer>, C<varchar>,
C<serial>, C<uuid>, C<json>, C<jsonb>, C<text>, C<boolean>, ...) replace the
verbose column-info hashref.

  package MyApp::Schema::Result::Artist;
  use DBIO::Cake;
  col artistid => serial, auto_inc;
  col name     => varchar(100);
  primary_key 'artistid';
  has_many cds => 'MyApp::Schema::Result::CD', 'artistid';
  1;

Cake modifiers:

  null        auto_inc     fk($target)
  default     unsigned     on_create    on_update

Driver shortcuts activate driver-specific column types and components in one
import flag:

  use DBIO::Cake -Pg;       # PostgreSQL defaults (uuid, jsonb, ...)
  use DBIO::Cake -MySQL;
  use DBIO::Cake -SQLite;

Other import flags:

  -inflate_datetime    load InflateColumn::DateTime automatically
  -inflate_json        inflate json columns to hashrefs
  -inflate_jsonb       inflate jsonb columns (PostgreSQL)
  -retrieve_defaults   fetch server-side defaults after insert

The type registry on the active Storage class (C<cake_defaults()>,
C<type_info($name)>) drives driver-aware column type resolution.

=head1 INTEGRATED COMPONENTS

The following features were previously separate CPAN distributions or
required C<load_components>. In DBIO they are part of core and need no
explicit loading unless noted.

=head2 DBIO::Timestamp (was DBIx::Class::TimeStamp)

Automatic C<created_at> / C<updated_at> timestamps. Configure per column:

  col created_at => timestamp, on_create;
  col updated_at => timestamp, on_update;

Or use the helpers available in all three styles:

  col_created 'created_at';        # set on insert
  col_updated 'updated_at';        # set on insert and update
  cols_updated_created();          # both with default names

Available via L<DBIO::Timestamp>. No C<load_components> needed in Cake or
Candy; Vanilla code can still load it explicitly.

=head2 Row helpers (was DBIx::Class::Helpers)

The following helpers from C<DBIx::Class::Helpers> are integrated directly
into L<DBIO::Row> and require no C<load_components> call:

=over 4

=item L<DBIO::Row/TO_JSON> - serializable hashref, excludes blob/text columns

=item L<DBIO::Row/serializable_columns> - list of serializable column names

=item L<DBIO::Row/self_rs> - a ResultSet scoped to this row

=item L<DBIO::Row/get_storage_value> - original DB value before in-memory changes

=item L<DBIO::Row/before_column_change> - fire a callback before a column is modified

=item L<DBIO::Row/after_column_change> - fire a callback after a column is modified

=item L<DBIO::Row/around_column_change> - wrap a column update with an around-style hook

=item L<DBIO::Row/proxy_resultset_method> - expose a ResultSet C<with_*> method as a row accessor

=back

These come from C<DBIx::Class::Helper::Row::StorageValues>,
C<DBIx::Class::Helper::Row::OnColumnChange>, and
C<DBIx::Class::Helper::ResultSet::ProxyResultSetMethod>.

=head2 IntrospectableM2M (was DBIx::Class::IntrospectableM2M)

Many-to-many introspection is integrated into
L<DBIO::Relationship::ManyToMany>. The C<_m2m_metadata> structure is
populated automatically when you declare a C<many_to_many> relationship. No
C<load_components> needed.

Accessible fields: C<accessor>, C<relation>, C<foreign_relation>,
C<rs_method>, C<add_method>, C<set_method>, C<remove_method>.

=head2 DBIO::UUIDColumns (was DBIx::Class::UUIDColumns)

Auto-generate UUID values on insert. Mark columns with:

  uuid_columns('id');            # Vanilla/Candy
  col id => uuid, auto_inc;      # Cake (uses uuid_columns internally)

The UUID class defaults to the first available among C<Data::UUID>,
C<UUID>, C<UUID::Random>. Override with C<uuid_class()>.

See L<DBIO::UUIDColumns>.

=head2 DBIO::EncodedColumn

One-way encoding of column values (passwords, tokens). Mark a column:

  __PACKAGE__->add_columns(
      password => {
          data_type       => 'varchar',
          size            => 100,
          encode_column   => 1,
          encode_class    => 'Digest',
          encode_args     => { algorithm => 'SHA-256', format => 'hex' },
          encode_check_method => 'check_password',
      },
  );

The column is encoded transparently on write. The C<check_password>
(or whatever name you give C<encode_check_method>) method is generated
automatically on the Result class.

Storage format: C<dbio$E<lt>algoE<gt>$E<lt>salt_b64E<gt>$E<lt>digest_b64E<gt>>.

See L<DBIO::EncodedColumn>.

=head2 DBIO::HashAccessor

Accessor generation for serialized hash columns (JSON, YAML, MessagePack):

  __PACKAGE__->add_hash_accessor('metadata', 'metadata_col');

Generates: C<metadata()>, C<metadata_hash()>, C<metadata_hash_delete()>,
C<metadata_push()>, C<metadata_shift()>.

See L<DBIO::HashAccessor>.

=head2 InflateColumn::Serializer (JSON, YAML, MessagePack)

Serialize complex Perl structures to a text/blob column. Available via
C<load_components('InflateColumn::Serializer')>. Serializer options:
C<JSON>, C<YAML>, C<Sereal>, C<MsgPack>.

=head2 PopulateMore (was DBIx::Class::PopulateMore)

Enhanced C<populate()> that supports cross-source references, fixture
data from files, and batch inserts. Integrated into L<DBIO::Schema>.
The invocation syntax is unchanged:

  $schema->populate([ Users => ... ]);

=head1 NEW CONCEPTS

These features did not exist in DBIx::Class in any form.

=head2 DBIO::ChangeLog - audit trail per Result class

Automatic row-level change tracking. Add to a Result class:

  __PACKAGE__->load_components('ChangeLog');

DBIO creates a companion table C<E<lt>tableE<gt>_changelog> automatically.
By default every column change is recorded (INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE).
Exclude sensitive columns:

  __PACKAGE__->changelog_exclude_columns(qw/ password_hash session_token /);

Changes are stored as JSON. Methods:

  $row->changelog_entries();          # ResultSet of log rows
  $schema->changelog_serialize_changes($hashref);
  $schema->changelog_deserialize_changes($json_str);

PostgreSQL storage can use native C<jsonb> for the changes column.
The version table was renamed from C<dbix_class_schema_versions> to
C<dbio_schema_versions>.

See L<DBIO::ChangeLog> and L<DBIO::Schema::ChangeLog>.

=head2 DBIO::AccessBroker - credential source interface

A storage-agnostic interface for credential lifecycle management. A broker
is a B<CredentialSource>: it supplies the connect info for one backend
identity. It does not route and does not own a host list - read/write
routing and the master/replicant topology belong to L<DBIO::Replicated>.
Pass a broker to C<connect()> in place of a DSN; the storage detects it
and attaches it:

  my $schema = MyApp::Schema->connect(
      DBIO::AccessBroker::Static->new(
          dsn      => $dsn,
          username => $user,
          password => $pass,
      )
  );

The storage calls C<connect_info_for_storage($storage)> on the broker
before each connection. One credential can serve many servers via a
C<< $broker->for_host($host) >> view.

Built-in broker classes:

=over 4

=item L<DBIO::AccessBroker::Static> - single DSN, drop-in replacement

=item L<DBIO::AccessBroker::Vault> - rotating credentials with TTL

=item L<DBIO::AccessBroker::HostBound> - one credential identity pinned to one host

=back

Build a custom broker by subclassing L<DBIO::AccessBroker> and implementing
C<connect_info_for_storage>, C<needs_refresh>, and C<refresh>.

=head2 DBIO::Moo and DBIO::Moose - OO framework bridges

Use Moo or Moose attributes alongside DBIO column accessors in the same
Result, ResultSet, or Schema class.

  package MyApp::Schema::Result::Artist;
  use DBIO::Moo;
  use DBIO::Cake;

  col artistid => serial, auto_inc;
  col name     => varchar(100);
  primary_key 'artistid';

  has display_name => (is => 'lazy');
  sub _build_display_name { 'Artist: ' . $_[0]->name }

  1;

L<DBIO::Moo> and L<DBIO::Moose> wire the framework constructor
(C<FOREIGNBUILDARGS> for Moo, C<BUILDARGS> for Moose) into DBIO's C<new()>
so that DBIO column data is routed correctly and Moo/Moose attributes are
filtered from DBIO's column constructor.

Combinations with Cake and Candy are fully supported. Use
L<DBIO::Cake> with C<use DBIO::Moo> in the same file.

See L<DBIO::Moo> and L<DBIO::Moose>.

=head2 Async storage interface

L<DBIO::Storage::Async> defines a storage-agnostic async interface
(Phase 1 + 2). Queries return C<Future> objects. Two concrete
implementations bypass DBI entirely:

=over 4

=item C<DBIO::PostgreSQL::Async> (C<DBIO-PostgreSQL-Async>) - C<libpq> via
C<EV::Pg>; adds LISTEN/NOTIFY, COPY IN/OUT, and request pipelining.

=item C<DBIO::MySQL::Async> (C<DBIO-MySQL-Async>) - the MariaDB client via
C<EV::MariaDB>; adds pipelining and connection-pool transaction pinning.

=back

The core async interface is in C<DBIO::Storage::Async>. Application code
that targets multiple backends should program against that interface.

=head2 Type registry on Storage

Each driver's Storage class exposes:

  $schema->storage->cake_defaults()        # hashref of driver-preferred options
  $schema->storage->type_info($type_name)  # { components => [...], cake_options => {...} }

The Cake DSL reads this registry when resolving column types so that, for
example, C<col data =E<gt> jsonb> on a PostgreSQL storage automatically
activates C<InflateColumn::JSONB>.

=head2 DBIO::Storage::DateTimeFormat - shared driver datetime base

DBIx::Class drivers each hand-rolled a private C<DateTime::Format::*> wrapper
package inside their storage class, typically C<require>-ing
L<DateTime::Format::Strptime> at runtime. DBIO replaces these with a shared
base, L<DBIO::Storage::DateTimeFormat>. A driver's datetime format class
declares its strptime patterns as class data and may name a preferred CPAN
C<DateTime::Format::*> class:

  package DBIO::DriverName::DateTime::Format;
  use base 'DBIO::Storage::DateTimeFormat';
  __PACKAGE__->preferred_format_class('DateTime::Format::DriverName'); # optional
  __PACKAGE__->datetime_parse_pattern('%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S');
  __PACKAGE__->datetime_format_pattern('%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S');

When the preferred class is installed it handles parsing and formatting;
otherwise the declared patterns are used via L<DateTime::Format::Strptime>
(a hard dependency of core, so drivers declare nothing extra). The pattern
fallback round-trips identically to the preferred class.

=head1 UTILITY CHANGES

=head2 DBIO::Util replaces DBIx::Class::_ENV_

The internal C<DBIx::Class::_ENV_> pseudo-package has been removed. All runtime
constants and utility functions are now in L<DBIO::Util>:

  use DBIO::Util qw( is_windows help_url scope_guard ... );

Exported functions include:

  is_windows   is_dev_release   old_mro   has_ithreads
  dbiotest     peepeeness       shuffle_unordered_resultsets
  help_url     iv_size          os_name

  sigwarn_silencer   modver_gt_or_eq   fail_on_internal_wantarray
  refdesc  refcount  hrefaddr  scope_guard
  quote_sub  qsub  perlstring  serialize  dump_value
  UNRESOLVABLE_CONDITION

  dir_path   file_path   parent_dir   slurp_file   write_file
  mkpath     rmtree      split_name   class_path

  firstidx  uniq  apply  array_eq
  is_plain_value   is_literal_value

C<Path::Class> is no longer a dependency; use the C<DBIO::Util> path helpers
instead.

=head2 DBIOx namespace

The C<DBIOx::> namespace is reserved for official DBIO extensions that are
not part of the core distribution - analogous to C<DBIx::> but scoped to the
DBIO ecosystem.

=head1 REMOVED FEATURES

=head2 Class::DBI compatibility (CDBICompat)

The C<DBIx::Class::CDBICompat> layer and the legacy C<DB.pm> shim have been
removed entirely. There is no replacement. If you depend on C<Class::DBI>
compatibility, stay on DBIx::Class or port your code.

=head2 Hide-from-PAUSE package trick

Internal packages no longer use the C<package # hide from PAUSE\nFoo::Bar;>
trick. L<Meta::NoIndex> in the distribution's C<META.yml> handles PAUSE
exclusion instead.

=head2 Removed external dependencies

=over 4

=item C<SQL::Abstract::Classic> - replaced by C<SQL::Abstract>

=item C<Path::Class> - replaced by helpers in L<DBIO::Util>

=item C<Sub::Name> - no longer used

=item C<SQL::Abstract::Util> - merged into L<SQL::Abstract> core

=back

=head1 TESTING INFRASTRUCTURE

=head2 DBIO::Test - database-free unit testing

Core tests B<must not> use a real database. L<DBIO::Test> provides a mock
storage back-end:

  use DBIO::Test;
  my $schema = DBIO::Test->init_schema();    # fake storage, no DBI

  my $storage = $schema->storage;
  $storage->mock(qr/SELECT .* FROM artist/, [
      { artistid => 1, name => 'Tori Amos' },
  ]);

Driver-specific tests (real SQL, real DBI) belong in the driver distributions.

=head2 Shared test schemas

Test schemas shared across the core and driver distributions live in
C<DBIO::Test::Schema::*> under C<dbio/lib/>:

  DBIO::Test::Schema::Vanilla
  DBIO::Test::Schema::Candy
  DBIO::Test::Schema::Cake
  DBIO::Test::Schema::Moo
  DBIO::Test::Schema::Moose

Load driver-specific result classes with the hashref form:

  DBIO::Test::Schema->load_classes({
      'DBIO::PostgreSQL::Test' => ['SequenceTest'],
  });

Never redefine a shared schema class inline inside a driver test.

=head2 Environment variables renamed

All test environment variables were renamed from C<DBICTEST_*> to
C<DBIO_TEST_*>:

  DBIO_TEST_PG_DSN         PostgreSQL DSN
  DBIO_TEST_MYSQL_DSN      MySQL/MariaDB DSN
  DBIO_TEST_SQLITE_DSN     SQLite DSN (rarely needed, usually in-memory)

=head1 MIGRATION QUICK-REFERENCE

  DBIx::Class concept               DBIO equivalent
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  DBIx::Class::*                    DBIO::*
  use base 'DBIx::Class::Core'      use base 'DBIO::Core'  (Vanilla)
                                    use DBIO::Candy;       (Candy)
                                    use DBIO::Cake;        (Cake)
  sql_limit_dialect / emulate_limit apply_limit on SQLMaker subclass
  SQL::Abstract::Classic            SQL::Abstract (>= 1.99)
  DBIx::Class::TimeStamp            DBIO::Timestamp (integrated)
  DBIx::Class::Helpers              DBIO::Row helpers (integrated)
  DBIx::Class::IntrospectableM2M    ManyToMany (integrated)
  DBIx::Class::UUIDColumns          DBIO::UUIDColumns (integrated)
  DBIx::Class::Replicated           DBIO::Replicated (in core)
  DBIx::Class::CDBICompat           removed (no replacement)
  DBICTest::*                       DBIO::Test::*
  DBICTEST_* env vars               DBIO_TEST_* env vars
  dbix_class_schema_versions        dbio_schema_versions
  SQL::Translator (DDL/deploy)      native Deploy per driver (optional)

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<DBIO::Manual> - documentation overview

=item L<DBIO::Manual::DocMap> - full documentation map

=item L<DBIO::Manual::Migration> - step-by-step DBIx::Class to DBIO conversion

=item L<DBIO::Base> - meta-infrastructure base class

=item L<DBIO::Candy> - import-sugar layer

=item L<DBIO::Cake> - DDL-like DSL layer

=item L<DBIO::Timestamp> - automatic timestamp columns

=item L<DBIO::UUIDColumns> - automatic UUID columns

=item L<DBIO::EncodedColumn> - one-way column encoding

=item L<DBIO::ChangeLog> - row-level audit trail

=item L<DBIO::AccessBroker> - connection routing interface

=item L<DBIO::Moo> - Moo attribute bridge

=item L<DBIO::Moose> - Moose attribute bridge

=item L<DBIO::Replicated> - replicated storage

=item L<DBIO::Test> - database-free test infrastructure

=item L<DBIO::Util> - utility functions

=item L<DBIO::Storage::DateTimeFormat> - shared driver datetime base

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

DBIO & DBIx::Class Authors

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2026 DBIO Authors
Portions Copyright (C) 2005-2025 DBIx::Class Authors
Based on DBIx::Class, heavily modified.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
