=head1 NAME

Catalyst::Plugin::AutoCRUD::Manual::Troubleshooting - Troubleshooting Advice

=head1 Debug Trace

It's possible to have the plugin dump several key data structures used when
retrieving data or updating the data source. Set the environment variable
C<AUTOCRUD_DEBUG> to a true value, when running your server.

For example with the test server:

 AUTOCRUD_DEBUG=1 ./server.pl

Currently the L<DBIx::Class> backend will dump:

=over 4

=item *

Search parameters used

=item *

All SQL statements executed (including transactions)

=item *

Data structure of results prepared for return in an AJAX bundle

=back

These can be very useful in working out why data is missing from the display
(perhaps DBIx::Class is misconfigured and issueing the wrong SQL statements).

=head1 Metadata Dump

Within the AutoCRUD plugin exists a data structure representing all backend
storage metadata required to render the frontend display. This includes
database, table and column names, data types, default values, relations, and
so on.

Furthermore, this metadata comes in two parts: that introspected by the plugin
itself, and also the user's own configuration directives (whether items or
features are hidden, enabled, and so on).

To dump this data for inspection, you must set an environment variable and
then GET a specific URL path. The path requires the database and table name to
be included, so for the example below we have C<mydb> and C<mytable> as the
names. Run the server with the environment variable:

 AUTOCRUD_DEBUG=1 ./server.pl

And then retrieve this URL path:

 .../autocrud/site/default/schema/mydb/source/mytable/dumpmeta_html

Note that if you use the C<basepath> configuration then C<autocrud> will of
course be something else (or not present). The response will be a web page
with all the metadata known about your data sources.

This is extremely useful when data is not being retrieved or displayed
correctly, or your configuration directives are supposedly being ignored.
Entries in the data structure should be self-explanatory.

=cut
