=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

App::EPAN - Exclusive Perl Archive Nook

=head1 VERSION

This document describes App::EPAN version 0.002.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use App::EPAN;
   App::EPAN->run(@ARGV);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This library is the actual backend/workhorse for the C<epan> program.

=head2 Action Methods

All action methods associated to the actions that can be triggered from the
main program.

=over

=item C<< action_add >>

=item C<< action_create >>

=item C<< action_index >>

=begin hide-this

=item C<< action_idx >>

=end hide-this

=item C<< action_inject >>

=item C<< action_install >>

=item C<< action_list_actions >>

=item C<< action_list_obsoletes >>

=item C<< action_purge_obsoletes >>

=item C<< action_update >>

Normally used as:

   $instance->action_...;

=back

The main entry point for these methods is:

=over

=item C<< run >>

   $instance->run(@ARGV);

Runs the program with the provided arguments list.

=back

=head2 Configuration methods

The following methods relate to configuration handling:

=over

=item C<< args >>

   my @args = $instance->args;

Get arguments after configuration parsing, usually this is a list of modules.

=item C<< config >>

   my $single = $instance->config($cnf_name);
   my @multiple = $instance->config(@cnf_names);

Get one or more configurations.

=item C<< execute_tests >>

   my $boolean = $instance->execute_tests;

Check if tests should be executed when invoking C<cpanm>.

=item C<< get_options >>

   $instance->get_options(@ARGS);

Parse input options.

=item C<< target_dir >>

   my $path = $instance->target_dir;

Get target directory for the I<EPAN>. Defaults to C<epan>.

=back

=head2 Listing methods

These methods provide list from the distributions collected along the way:

=over

=item C<< last_distlist >>

   my @list = $instance->last_distlist;

List of distributions (last updated).

=item C<< last_modlist >>

   my @list = $instance->last_modlist;

List of modules (last updated).

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2011-2021 by Flavio Poletti <polettix@cpan.org>

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

=over

L<http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>

=back

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

=cut
