=pod

=head1 NAME

Dancer2::Session::MongoDB - Dancer 2 session storage with MongoDB

=head1 VERSION

version 0.002

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # In Dancer 2 config.yml file

  session: MongoDB
  engines:
    session:
      MongoDB:
        database_name: myapp_db
        client_options:
          host: mongodb://localhost:27017

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module implements a session factory for Dancer 2 that stores session
state within L<MongoDB>.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 database_name (required)

Name of the database to hold the sessions collection.

=head2 collection_name

Collection name for storing session data. Defaults to 'dancer_sessions'.

=head2 client_options

Hash reference of configuration options to pass through to
L<MongoDB::MongoClient> constructor.  See that module for details on
configuring authentication, replication, etc.

=for Pod::Coverage method_names_here

=for :stopwords cpan testmatrix url annocpan anno bugtracker rt cpants kwalitee diff irc mailto metadata placeholders metacpan

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Bugs / Feature Requests

Please report any bugs or feature requests through the issue tracker
at L<https://github.com/dagolden/dancer2-session-mongodb/issues>.
You will be notified automatically of any progress on your issue.

=head2 Source Code

This is open source software.  The code repository is available for
public review and contribution under the terms of the license.

L<https://github.com/dagolden/dancer2-session-mongodb>

  git clone git://github.com/dagolden/dancer2-session-mongodb.git

=head1 AUTHOR

David Golden <dagolden@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2013 by David Golden.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The Apache License, Version 2.0, January 2004

