#title Hyper links

** Begin

#label
Here the doc start
#label1 here blablabla
A simple internal link is created with \hypertarget, with two parameters of an anchor name, and anchor text. \hyperlink has two arguments, the name of a hypertext object defined somewhere by \hypertarget, and the text which be used as the link on the page. 

** Middle

#label2
#label2x #label2 Continue here
A simple internal link is created with \hypertarget, with two parameters of an anchor name, and anchor text. \hyperlink has two arguments, the name of a hypertext object defined somewhere by \hypertarget, and the text which be used as the link on the page. 
A simple internal link is created with \hypertarget, with two parameters of an anchor name, and anchor text. \hyperlink has two arguments, the name of a hypertext object defined somewhere by \hypertarget, and the text which be used as the link on the page. 
A simple internal link is created with \hypertarget, with two parameters of an anchor name, and anchor text. \hyperlink has two arguments, the name of a hypertext object defined somewhere by \hypertarget, and the text which be used as the link on the page. 
 #label3 #label3 is a label

** Next

#label2
This is valid.

#1blabla
Not a label, starts with a number

{{{
#label3
This is verbatim
}}}

  #label5
  in quotation is not neutralized,

> #label6
> in verse is not neutralized

<verse>
#label7
 in verse again, we have a label
</verse>

#label9 
This is a label despite of the trailing whitespace.

 #label9
This is a label despite of the leading whitespace.

 1. #label8 not a label

 2. #lable9
    This is a not label

#label3enum
 3. This *is* a label

** End

Here we [[#label][go]] and [[#label2]] and [[#label3][dead link]] [[#label4]]
[[#1][Preserved verbatim]]
[[#label2 unkown]]
[[#label][\tryme]]



