=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Geo::EOP::Util - EOP useful constants

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Geo::EOP::Util
   is a Exporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Geo::EOP::Util ':eop11';

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Defines the namespaces used with EOP.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 Constants

All export tags defined NS_ATM_ESA, NS_SAR_ESA for EOP/HMA.

The constants have names which end with C<_ESA>, because I expect them
to move to the opengis name-space in the forseeable future.  Those new
names will not have the shorter constant name.

=head3 :hma10

Exports NS_OHR_ESA and NS_HMA_ESA as well.

=head3 :eop11

Exports NS_OPT_ESA and NS_EOP_ESA as well.

=head3 :eop12beta

Same exports as C<:eop11>

=head3 :eop121

Same exports as C<:eop11>

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Geo-EOP distribution version 0.50,
built on July 21, 2015. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/geo/>
All modules in this suite:
L</Geo::GML>,
L</Geo::ISO19139>,
L</Geo::EOP>,
L</Geo::Point>,
L</Geo::Proj4>,
L</Geo::WKT>, and
L</Math::Polygon>.

Please post questions or ideas to
F<https://list.hut.fi/mailman/listinfo/geo-perl|the Geo-Perl mailinglist>

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

=head2 License of the CODE

Copyrights of the perl code and the related documentation by
2008-2015 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

=head2 License of the SCHEMAS

The included schemas are copyrighted by the Open Geospatial Consortium, Inc.
They are unmodified copied from the files at F<http://schemas.opengis.net>.
Read OGCs disclaimer and copyright statements on documentation and software
at F<http://www.opengeospatial.org/ogc/legal>.  The license text is also
included in this CPAN distribution.

