=pod

=head1 NAME

PDF::Sign - Sign PDF files with CMS/CAdES signatures and RFC3161 timestamps

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.05

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use PDF::Sign qw(config :sign :ts);
    # or selectively:
    use PDF::Sign qw(config :sign);   # config prepare_file sign_file cms_sign
    use PDF::Sign qw(config :ts);     # config prepare_ts ts_file ts_query tsa_fetch

    # configure (recommended)
    config(
        osslcmd     => '/usr/local/bin/openssl',  # optional, default: 'openssl'
        x509_pem    => '/path/to/cert.pem',
        x509_chain  => '/path/to/chain.pem',      # optional
        privkey_pem => '/path/to/privkey.pem',
        tsaserver   => 'http://timestamp.digicert.com',
        tmpdir      => '/tmp',
        debug       => 0,
    );

    # sign
    my $pdf = PDF::API2->open('input.pdf');
    prepare_file($pdf, 0);              # 0 = invisible, 1 = visible widget
    my $signed = sign_file($pdf);

    # timestamp
    my $pdf2 = PDF::API2->from_string($signed);
    prepare_ts($pdf2);
    my $timestamped = ts_file($pdf2);

    open(my $fh, '>:raw', 'output.pdf') or die $!;
    print $fh $timestamped;
    close $fh;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

PDF::Sign provides functions to apply CMS/CAdES digital signatures and
RFC3161 timestamps to PDF files, producing PAdES-compliant output.

Requires an external C<openssl> binary for signing operations.
TSA requests use C<curl> if available, falling back to L<LWP::UserAgent>.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

All configuration is done via package variables (C<our>), settable
from the calling script:

=over 4

=item C<$PDF::Sign::osslcmd>

Path to the openssl binary. Default: C<openssl> (from PATH).

=item C<$PDF::Sign::x509_pem>

Path to the signer certificate PEM file. Required for signing.

=item C<$PDF::Sign::x509_chain>

Path to the certificate chain PEM file. Optional.

=item C<$PDF::Sign::privkey_pem>

Path to the private key PEM file. Required for signing.

=item C<$PDF::Sign::tsaserver>

URL of the TSA server. Default: C<http://timestamp.digicert.com>.

=item C<$PDF::Sign::tmpdir>

Directory for temporary files. Default: current working directory.

=item C<$PDF::Sign::siglen>

Signature buffer size in bytes. Default: 8192 (1024*8).
Increase if signatures are truncated.

=item C<$PDF::Sign::debug>

Enable debug output. Default: 0.

=back

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 config(%args)

Configure PDF::Sign in one call. All keys are optional - only provided
keys are updated. Recommended over setting package variables directly.

    config(
        osslcmd     => '/usr/local/bin/openssl',
        x509_pem    => '/path/to/cert.pem',
        x509_chain  => '/path/to/chain.pem',
        privkey_pem => '/path/to/privkey.pem',
        tsaserver   => 'http://timestamp.digicert.com',
        tmpdir      => '/tmp',
        siglen      => 8192,
        debug       => 1,
    );

If C<osslcmd> is changed, the openssl version is re-detected automatically.

Package variables (C<$PDF::Sign::x509_pem> etc.) still work for
backwards compatibility.

=head2 prepare_file($pdf, $presign, $reason)

Prepares the AcroForm structure for a CMS/CAdES signature.
C<$presign = 1> adds a visible widget on page 1; C<$presign = 0> adds
an invisible field. C<$reason> is optional.

=head2 sign_file($pdf)

Applies the CMS/CAdES signature. Returns the signed PDF as a string.

=head2 prepare_ts($pdf)

Prepares the AcroForm structure for a RFC3161 DocTimeStamp.
Appends to an existing AcroForm if a signature field already exists.

=head2 ts_file($pdf)

Applies the RFC3161 timestamp. Returns the timestamped PDF as a string.

=head2 verify_signatures($pdf_path, %args)

Reads and verifies all digital signatures in a PDF file.
Returns an arrayref of hashrefs, one per signature field found:

    my $sigs = verify_signatures('signed.pdf');
    for my $sig (@$sigs) {
        printf "Type:      %s\n", $sig->{type};       # cms | tsa
        printf "SubFilter: %s\n", $sig->{subfilter};
        printf "Signer:    %s\n", $sig->{signer};     # cms only
        printf "Signed at: %s\n", $sig->{signed_at};  # cms only
        printf "TSA at:    %s\n", $sig->{tsa_at};     # tsa only
        printf "Valid:     %s\n", $sig->{valid} ? '1' : '0';
        printf "Error:     %s\n", $sig->{error} if $sig->{error};
    }

Optional args:

    verify_signatures('signed.pdf', ca_bundle => '/etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt');

Without C<ca_bundle>, verification uses C<-noverify> (no CA chain check -
cryptographic integrity only). With C<ca_bundle>, full chain verification
is performed.

=head2 cms_sign(%args)

Low-level: invokes openssl cms to sign a file stream.
Args: C<signer>, C<inkey>, C<in>, C<certfile> (optional).
Returns raw DER signature bytes.

=head2 ts_query(%args)

Low-level: generates a .tsq timestamp query file via openssl ts.
Args: C<in> (file to timestamp), C<out> (output .tsq path).

=head2 tsa_fetch(%args)

Low-level: sends .tsq to TSA server, returns TimeStampToken DER bytes.
Args: C<tsq> (input .tsq path), C<tsa_url>.
Uses curl if available, falls back to LWP::UserAgent.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

=over 4

=item * L<PDF::API2> or L<PDF::Builder> (one required)

=item * L<File::Slurp>

=item * L<MIME::Base64> (core)

=item * L<POSIX> (core)

=item * External: C<openssl> binary

=item * External: C<curl> binary (optional, falls back to LWP::UserAgent)

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Massimiliano Citterio E<lt>mcitterio@cmcps.itE<gt>

Originally inspired by Martin Schuette E<lt>info@mschuette.nameE<gt> (2012)
L<https://mschuette.name/files/pdfsign.pl>

=head1 LICENSE

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself (GPL/Artistic License).

See L<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/> for more information.

The original code by Martin Schuette is covered by the BSD 2-Clause License
retained in the source.

=cut
