=for comment based on iup-3.2 - http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/elem/iupcbox.html

=head1 NAME

IUP::Cbox - [GUI element] container for position elements in absolute coordinates

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Creates a void container for position elements in absolute coordinates.
It is a B<concrete> layout container.

It does not have a native representation.

The L<IUP::Cbox|IUP::Cbox> is equivalent of a L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox> or L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox> where all
the children have the L<FLOATING|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/FLOATING> attribute
set to YES, but children must use CX and CY attributes instead of the
POSITION attribute.

=head1 USAGE

=head2 CREATION - new() method

 #standard way
 my $cbox = IUP::Cbox->new( child=>[$elem1, $elem2], ANYATTRIBUTE=>'any value' );
 
 #or with just a single child
 my $cbox = IUP::Cbox->new( child=>$elem, ANYATTRIBUTE=>'any value' );
 
 #or with just 1 parameter (arrayref)
 my $cbox = IUP::Cbox->new( [$elem1, $elem2] );
 
 #or with just 1 parameter (reference to child elements)
 my $cbox = IUP::Cbox->new( $elem );

=over 

B<child:> (named parameter) List of the references to elements (or just a single element) that 
will be placed in the box. It can be ommited (see note below).

B<Returns:> The reference to the created element, or C<udnef> if an error
occurs.

NOTE: You can pass to C<new()> other C<ATTRIBUTE=E<gt>'value'> or C<CALLBACKNAME=E<gt>\&func> pairs relevant
to this element - see L<IUP::Manual::02_Elements|IUP::Manual::02_Elements/"new()">.

NOTE: IUP::Cbox can be created with no elements (no child params passed to C<new()> constructor)
and be dynamic filled later using
L<C<< $element->Append() >>|IUP::Manual::02_Elements/"Append()"> and/or
L<C<< $element->Insert() >>|IUP::Manual::02_Elements/"Insert()"> methods.

=back

=head2 ATTRIBUTES

For more info about concept of attributes (setting/getting values etc.)
see L<IUP::Manual::03_Attributes|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes>. Attributes specific to this element:

=over

=item B<CX, CY>

I<(non inheritable) B<(at children only)>>

Position in pixels
of the child relative to the top-left corner of the box. Must be set
for each child inside the box.

=item L<EXPAND|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/EXPAND>

I<(non inheritable)>

The default value is "YES".

=item L<SIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/SIZE> /
L<RASTERSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/RASTERSIZE> (non inheritable)

Must be
defined for each child. If not defined for the box, then it will be the
bounding box that includes all children in their position.

=item B<WID>

I<(read-only)>

returns -1 if mapped.

=back

The following L<common attributes|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/Common Attributes> are also accepted:

=over

=item * L<FONT|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/FONT>,
L<CLIENTSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/CLIENTSIZE>,
L<CLIENTOFFSET|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/CLIENTOFFSET>,
L<POSITION|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/POSITION>,
L<MINSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/MINSIZE>,
L<MAXSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/MAXSIZE>

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES


The element B<IUP::Cbox> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over

=item * L<0-basic/cbox.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/cbox.pl> - IUP::Cbox example

=back 



=head1 SEE ALSO

L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>, L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox>

The original doc: L<iupcbox.html|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/elem/iupcbox.html>
 

=cut