=for comment based on iup-3.5 - http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/elem/iupfill.html

=head1 NAME

IUP::Fill - [GUI element] dynamically occupies empty spaces always trying to expand itself

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Creates a Fill composition element, which dynamically occupies empty
spaces always trying to expand itself. Its parent B<must> be an
L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox> or an L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>. If an EXPAND is set on at least one of the
other children of the box, then the Fill is ignored.

It does not have a native representation.

=head1 USAGE

=head2 CREATION - new() method

 $fill = IUP::Fill->new( SIZE=>30 );
 
B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

NOTE: You can pass to C<new()> other C<ATTRIBUTE=E<gt>'value'> or C<CALLBACKNAME=E<gt>\&func> pairs relevant
to this element - see L<IUP::Manual::02_Elements|IUP::Manual::02_Elements/"new()">.

=head2 ATTRIBUTES

For more info about concept of attributes (setting/getting values etc.)
see L<IUP::Manual::03_Attributes|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes>. Attributes specific to this element:

=over

=item L<EXPAND|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/EXPAND>

I<(non inheritable)>

Ignored. If B<User> size is not defined, then when inside a L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox> EXPAND is
HORIZONTAL, when inside a L<IUP::Vbox> EXPAND is VERTICAL. If B<User> size
is defined then EXPAND is NO.

=item  L<SIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/SIZE> / L<RASTERSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/RASTERSIZE> (non inheritable)

Defines the width, if inside a L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox>, or the height, if it is inside a
L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>. When consulted behaves as the standard SIZE/RASTERSIZE
attributes. The standard format "wxh" can also be used, but width will
be ignored if inside a L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox> and height will be ignored if inside
a L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox> (since iup-3.3).

=item B<WID>

I<(read-only)>

Returns -1 if mapped.

=back

The following L<common attributes|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/Common Attributes> are also accepted:

=over

=item * L<FONT|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/FONT>,
L<POSITION|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/POSITION>,
L<MINSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/MINSIZE>,
L<MAXSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/MAXSIZE>

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES


The element B<IUP::Fill> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over

=item * L<0-basic/button.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/button.pl> - IUP::Button example

=item * L<0-basic/canvas2.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/canvas2.pl> - IUP::Canvas example

=item * L<0-basic/colorbrowser.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/colorbrowser.pl> - IUP::ColorBrowser example

=item * L<0-basic/fill.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/fill.pl> - IUP::Fill Example

=item * L<0-basic/frame1.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/frame1.pl> - IUP::Frame Example

=item * L<0-basic/gauge.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/gauge.pl> - IUP::Gauge example

=item * L<0-basic/hbox.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/hbox.pl> - IUP::Hbox example

=item * L<0-basic/image.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/image.pl> - IUP::Image example

=item * L<0-basic/plot_advanced.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/plot_advanced.pl> - Plot controls

=item * L<0-basic/pre-dialogs.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/pre-dialogs.pl> - IUP::Expander example

=item * L<0-basic/progressbar2.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/progressbar2.pl> - IUP::ProgressBar example

=item * L<0-basic/progressbar3.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/progressbar3.pl> - IUP::ProgressBar example

=item * L<0-basic/radio.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/radio.pl> - IUP::Radio example

=item * L<0-basic/tabs3.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/tabs3.pl> - IUP::Tabs example 

=item * L<0-basic/tree_set_attrs.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/tree_set_attrs.pl> - IUP::Tree example (attributes)

=item * L<0-basic/vbox.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/vbox.pl> - IUP::Vbox example

=item * L<0-basic/zbox.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/zbox.pl> - IUP::Zbox example

=item * L<1-apps/app-plot-demo.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/1-apps/app-plot-demo.pl> - dials for zooming

=back 



=head1 SEE ALSO

L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox>, L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>

The original doc: L<iupfill.html|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/elem/iupfill.html>
 

=cut