=for comment based on iup-3.5 - http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/elem/iupnormalizer.html

=head1 NAME

IUP::Normalizer - [special] normalizes all controls from a list to be the biggest natural size

=head1 DESCRIPTION 

Normalizes all controls from a list so their natural size to be the
biggest natural size among them. All natural width will be set to the
biggest width, and all natural height will be set to the biggest height
according to is value.

 my $normalizer = IUP::Normalizer->new( child=>[$elem1, $elem2, $elem3], NORMALIZE=>"HORIZONTAL" );
 #at his point $elem1 ... $elem3 are normalized, IUP::Normalizer instance can be destroyed
 undef $normalizer;

=head1 USAGE

=head2 CREATION - new() method

 #standard way
 $normalizer = IUP::Normalizer->new( child=>[$elem1, $elem2], NORMALIZE=>"HORIZONTAL" );
 
 #or with just a single child
 $normalizer = IUP::Normalizer->new( child=>$elem1, NORMALIZE=>"HORIZONTAL" );
 
 #or with just 1 parameter (arrayref)
 $normalizer = IUP::Normalizer->new( [$elem1, $elem2] );
 
 #or with just 1 parameter (reference to child elements)
 $normalizer = IUP::Normalizer->new( $elem1 );

B<child:> (named parameter) List of the references to elements (or just a single element) that
will be normalized.

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

NOTE: You can pass to C<new()> other C<ATTRIBUTE=E<gt>'value'> or C<CALLBACKNAME=E<gt>\&func> pairs relevant
to this element - see L<IUP::Manual::02_Elements|IUP::Manual::02_Elements/"new()">.

=head2 ATTRIBUTES

For more info about concept of attributes (setting/getting values etc.)
see L<IUP::Manual::03_Attributes|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes>. Attributes specific to this element:

=over

=item B<NORMALIZE>

I<(non inheritable)> Normalization direction. Can be
HORIZONTAL, VERTICAL or BOTH. These are the same values of the
NORMALIZESIZE attribute. Default: HORIZONTAL.

=item B<NORMALIZERGROUP>

I<(non inheritable, for contained controls use)> Name of a normalizer to automatically add the control. If a normalizer
with that name does not exists then one is created.

=item B<ADDCONTROL>

I<(non inheritable)> Adds a control to the normalizer. The value passed must be the perl reference or name of the element.

To associate a name to element use L<SetName|/"SetName()"> or C<< name=>'ElemName' >> named parameter of L<new()|/"new()"> constructor.

=item B<ADDCONTROL_HANDLE>

I<(non inheritable)> Adds a control to the normalizer. The value passed must be a handle of an element.

=back

=head1 NOTES

It is NOT necessary to add the normalizer to a dialog hierarchy. Every
time the NORMALIZE attribute is set a normalization occurs. If the
normalizer is added to a dialog hierarchy, then whenever the B<Natural>
size is calculated a normalization occurs, so add it to the hierarchy
before the elements you want to normalize or its normalization will be
not used.

The elements do NOT need to be children of the same parent, do NOT need
to be mapped, and do NOT need to be in a complete hierarchy of a
dialog.

The elements are NOT children of the normalizer. To remove or add other
elements, the normalizer must be destroyed and created a new one.

Has the same effect of the NORMALIZESIZE attribute of the L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>
and L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox> controls, but it can be used for elements with different
parents, it changes the B<User> size of the elements.

=head1 EXAMPLES


Unfortunately there are no sample scripts using this element.



=head1 SEE ALSO

L<IUP::Hbox|IUP::Hbox>, L<IUP::Vbox|IUP::Vbox>

The original doc: L<iupnormalizer.html|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/elem/iupnormalizer.html>
 

=cut