=for comment based on iup-3.5 - http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/elem/iupradio.html

=head1 NAME

IUP::Radio - [GUI element] container for grouping mutual exclusive toggles (radiobutton)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Creates a void container for grouping mutual exclusive toggles. Only
one of its descendent toggles will be active at a time. The toggles can
be at any composition.

It does not have a native representation.

=head1 USAGE

=head2 CREATION - new() method

 $radio = IUP::Radio->new( child=>$box );

B<child:> (named parameter) Reference to an interface element. Usually it is a L<IUP::Vbox> or
an L<IUP::Hbox> containing the toggles associated to the radio. It can be C<undef>.

B<Returns:> the identifier of the created element, or C<undef> if an error occurs.

NOTE: You can pass to C<new()> other C<ATTRIBUTE=E<gt>'value'> or C<CALLBACKNAME=E<gt>\&func> pairs relevant
to this element - see L<IUP::Manual::02_Elements|IUP::Manual::02_Elements/"new()">.

=head2 ATTRIBUTES

For more info about concept of attributes (setting/getting values etc.)
see L<IUP::Manual::03_Attributes|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes>. Attributes specific to this element:

=over

=item L<EXPAND|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/EXPAND>

I<(non inheritable)>

The default value is "YES".

=item B<VALUE>

I<(non inheritable)>

Name identifier or reference to the active toggle element.
When consulted if the toggles are not mapped into the native system the return value may be C<undef> or invalid.

ZZZ-test-this(reading the value)

=item B<VALUE_HANDLE>

I<(non inheritable)>

Changes the active toggle. The value
passed must be the handle of a child contained in the radio. When
consulted if the toggles are not mapped into the native system the
return value may be C<undef> or invalid. 

=item B<WID>

I<(read-only)>

Returns -1 if mapped.

=back

The following L<common attributes|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/Common Attributes> are also accepted:

=over

=item * L<FONT|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/FONT>,
L<CLIENTSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/CLIENTSIZE>,
L<CLIENTOFFSET|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/CLIENTOFFSET>,
L<POSITION|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/POSITION>,
L<MINSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/MINSIZE>,
L<MAXSIZE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/MAXSIZE>,
L<VISIBLE|IUP::Manual::03_Attributes/VISIBLE>

=back

=head1 NOTES

The radio can be created with no elements and be dynamic filled using
L<Append|IUP::Manual::02_Elements/"Append()"> or
L<Insert|IUP::Manual::02_Elements/"Insert()">.

=head1 EXAMPLES


The element B<IUP::Radio> is used in the following sample scripts:

=over

=item * L<0-basic/cbox.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/cbox.pl> - IUP::Cbox example

=item * L<0-basic/image.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/image.pl> - IUP::Image example

=item * L<0-basic/layoutdialog.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/layoutdialog.pl> - IUP::LayoutDialog example

=item * L<0-basic/radio.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/radio.pl> - IUP::Radio example

=item * L<0-basic/toggle.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/0-basic/toggle.pl> - IUP::Toggle example

=item * L<1-apps/app-mdi.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/1-apps/app-mdi.pl> - IUP app example

=item * L<1-apps/app-sample1.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/1-apps/app-sample1.pl> - example used for screenshot - IUP.pod

=item * L<1-apps/app-sample2.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/1-apps/app-sample2.pl> - example based on the original sample.c

=item * L<1-apps/app-simple-demo.pl|https://metacpan.org/source/KMX/IUP-0.305/examples/1-apps/app-simple-demo.pl> - example used for screenshot - IUP.pod

=back 



The original doc: L<iupradio.html|http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/iup/en/elem/iupradio.html>
 

=cut