 * [[bin/uplug.wiki]]
 * [[Uplug/Config.wiki]]
 * [[Uplug/IO.wiki]]
 * [[Uplug/IO/Any.wiki]]

== Uplug - NLP tools for processing (parallel) corpora ==

Uplug is a collection of tools and scripts for processing text-corpora. Its main focus is the creation of (annotated) parallel corpora. The toolbox is divided into several packages:

The new project home page: https://bitbucket.org/tiedemann/uplug

The old pages at SourceForge: http://sourceforge.net/projects/uplug/


=== Packages ===

**uplug-main**: main components and scripts

**uplug-xx**: language-specific tools and models (**xx** = language ID)

**uplug-treetagger**: integration of the TreeTagger

**uplug-webalign**: webinterface for interactive alignment (ICA, ISA)

**uplug-cwb**: tools for indexing parallel corpora for the CWB


=== Reference ===

Please cite the following dissertation if you use Uplug:


{{{
 @PhdThesis{Tiedemann:PhD03,
  author = {J\"org Tiedemann},
  title  = {Recycling Translations -- {E}xtraction of Lexical
            Data from Parallel Corpora and their Application in
            Natural Language Processing},
  school = {Uppsala University},
  year   =  2003,
  address = {Uppsala, Sweden},
  note   = {Anna S{\aa}gvall{ }Hein, {\AA}ke Viberg (eds): Studia
            Linguistica Upsaliensia},
  url = {http://uu.diva-portal.org/smash/record.jsf?pid=diva2:163715},
 }
}}}

=== Installation ===

Start by downloading the latest uplug-main tar-ball and install the main components. This is fully functional and includes already a lot of the main features and some annotation tools.


{{{
 tar xzf uplug-main*.tar.gz
 cd uplug-main*
 perl Makefile.PL
 make all
 sudo make install
}}}
You may then select the language packs that you'd like to include and install them one by one. Look at the documentation and readme's inside of those packages.

You may also download the latest source from bitbucket and install all packages in one run:


{{{
 git clone https://bitbucket.org/tiedemann/uplug.git
 cd uplug
 make all
 sudo make install
}}}
More about installation and usage: Read the documentation and look at the provided files: INSTALL, QUICKSTART & HOWTO

See also:

uplug, Uplug, Uplug::Config, Uplug::IO, Uplug::IO::Any


=== Structure of the main package ===

Uplug is a collection of tools and scripts for processing text-corpora


{{{
 uplug            script for running Uplug modules
 bin/             executable scripts (Uplug modules)
 share/systems/   configuration files of Uplug modules
 share/ext/       external programs/tools integrated in Uplug
 tools/           simple tools (converting, dumping, etc)
 web/             experimental web interface (not maintained)

 share/ini/       some configuration files
 share/lang/      language specific data
 example/         small example texts

 lib/Uplug.pm     main library for running Uplug modules
 lib/Uplug/       other Uplug modules
}}}

=== License ===

Copyright (C) 2004-2012 Jörg Tiedemann

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA


== More Information ==

 * [[Uplug.wiki]]
 * [[Uplug/Config.wiki]]
 * [[Uplug/IO.wiki]]
 * [[Uplug/IO/Any.wiki]]
 * [[bin/uplug.wiki]]
