=head1 NAME

Geo::Point::Plugin::Transform - Geo::Pointモジュールに測地系変換メソッドを付加する


=head1 VERSION

この文書は Geo::Point::Plugin::Transform バージョン 0.0.2について記述しています。


=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Geo::Point::Plugin::Transform;
  
  my $pt_wgs84 = Geo::Point->longlat(135.00,35.00,"wgs84");
  my $pt_clrk  = $pt_wgs84->transform('clark66');   # Geo::Point オブジェクト


=head1 DESCRIPTION

このモジュールを導入する事により、Geo::Pointオブジェクトにtransformメソッドが
付加され、異なる測地系或いは投影法に変換されたGeo::Pointオブジェクトを得ることが
できます。


=head1 OBJECT METHOD

メソッドはGeo::Pointオブジェクトに加えられます。

=over 4

=item * transform( PROJECTION )

変換したい測地系/投影法名（PROJECTION）を引数にとります。
測地系/投影法名はGeo::Projモジュールにて定義されているものが利用可能です。
戻り値は、変換されたGeo::Pointオブジェクトです。
戻り値のGeo::Pointオブジェクトは、新たに生成されたものとなり、呼び出し元の
オブジェクトは保持されます。

=back


=head1 DEPENDENCIES

Geo::Point
Geo::Proj


=head1 AUTHOR

OHTSUKA Ko-hei  C<< <nene@kokogiko.net> >>


=head1 LICENCE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2008, OHTSUKA Ko-hei C<< <nene@kokogiko.net> >>. All rights reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself. See L<perlartistic>.


=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

BECAUSE THIS SOFTWARE IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE SOFTWARE, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE SOFTWARE "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE
ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE IS WITH
YOU. SHOULD THE SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL
NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR, OR CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE SOFTWARE AS PERMITTED BY THE ABOVE LICENCE, BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE
THE SOFTWARE (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGES.
