=head1 Methods

=head2 attr

=over 4

=item attr( attributeName )

Get the value of an attribute for the first element in the set of matched
elements.

=item attr( attributeName, value )

Set one or more attributes for the set of matched elements.

=item attr( map )

map: A hash ref of attribute-value pairs to set.

=item attr( attributeName, sub { my ( $index, $attr ) = @_; } )

=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/attr/>

=cut

=head2 removeAttr

Remove an attribute from each element in the set of matched elements.

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/removeAttr/>

=head2 addClass

Adds the specified class(es) to each of the set of matched elements.

=over 4

=item addClass( string )

One or more class names to be added to the class attribute of each matched
element.

=item addClass( sub { my ($index,$this,$currentClass) = @_; } )

A function returning one or more space-separated class names to be added.
Receives the index position of the element in the set and the old class value
as arguments.
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/addClass/>

=cut

=head2 removeClass

Remove a single class, multiple classes, or all classes from each element in
the set of matched elements.

=over 4

=item removeClass( string )

One or more space-separated classes to be removed from the class attribute of
each matched element

=item addClass( sub { my ($index,$this,$currentClass) = @_; } )

A function returning one or more space-separated class names to be removed.
Receives the index position of the element in the set and the old class value
as arguments.
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/removeClass/>

=cut

=head2 toggleClass

Add or remove one or more classes from each element in the set of matched
elements, depending on either the class's presence or the value of the switch
argument.

=over 4

=item toggleClass( string )

One or more class names (separated by spaces) to be toggled for each element in
the matched set.

=item toggleClass( className, switch )

className: One or more class names (separated by spaces) to be toggled for each
element in the matched set.

switch: A boolean value to determine whether the class should be added or removed.

=item addClass( sub { my ($this,$index,$currentClass) = @_; }, switch )

A function returning one or more space-separated class names to be removed.
Receives the index position of the element in the set and the old class value
as arguments.

switch: A boolean value to determine whether the class should be added or removed.
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/toggleClass/>

=cut

=head2 hasClass

Determine whether any of the matched elements are assigned the given class.

=over 4

=item hasClass( string )

String: The class name to search for.

=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/hasClass/>

=cut

=head2 val

Get the current value of the first element in the set of matched elements.

=over 4

=item val()

Get the current value of the first element in the set of matched elements.

=item val( string )

Set the value of each element in the set of matched elements.

=item val( sub{ my ($index,$this,$value) = @_; } )

A function returning the value to set.
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/val/>

=cut

=head2 id

return element id

=cut

=head2 find

Get the descendants of each element in the current set of matched elements,
filtered by a selector.

=over 4

=item find( selector )
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/find/>

=cut

=head2 css

insert css style(s) to the selected Element

=over 4

=item css({style=>value, style2 => value2, ...});

set list of hashref styles to the selected element(s)

=item css('style','value');

set one style to the selected element(s)
    
=back

=cut

=head2 data

Store arbitrary data associated with the specified element. Returns the value that was set.

=over 4

=item $obj->data( element, key, value )

or

=item $element->data( key, value )

element : The DOM element to associate with the data.

key : A string naming the piece of data to set.

value : The new data value.

=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/jQuery.data/>

=cut

=head2 filter

Reduce the set of matched elements to those that match the selector or pass the function's test.

=over 4

=item filter( selector )

=item filter( function )
    
=item filter( element )
    
=item filter( jQuery object )
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/filter/>

=cut

=head2 map

Translate all items in an array or object to new array of items.

L<http://api.jquery.com/jQuery.map/>

=cut

=head2 html

=over 4

=item html()

Get the contents of any element. If the selector expression matches more than
one element, only the first one's HTML content is returned.

=item html( htmlString )

htmlString: A string of HTML to set as the content of each matched element.

=item html(sub {my ($this,$index,$oldhtml) = @_;} );

A CODE ref returning the HTML content to set. Receives element, the index
position of the element in the set and the old HTML value as arguments. jQuery
empties the element before calling the function; use the oldhtml argument to
reference the previous content.

same as jQuery .html( function(index, oldhtml) )

=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/html/>

=cut

=head2 text

=over 4

=item text()

The result of the text() method is a string containing the combined text of all
matched elements.

=item text( textString )

textString: A string of text to set as the content of each matched element.

=item text(sub { my ($index,$oldtext,$element) = @_;} );

A CODE ref returning the text content to set. Receives the element, index
position of the element in the set and the old text value as arguments.

same as jQuery .text( function(index, oldtext) )

=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/html/>

=cut

=head2 append

Insert content, specified by the parameter, to the end of each element in the
set of matched elements.

=over 4

=item append( content )

content: An element, HTML string, or jQuery object to insert at the end of each
element in the set of matched elements.

=item append( sub { my ($index,$this,$html) = @_; } )

A CODE ref that returns an HTML string to insert at the end of each element in
the set of matched elements. Receives the index position of the element in the
set and the old HTML value of the element as arguments.

same as jQuery .append( function(index, html) )

=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/append/>

=cut

=head2 prepend

Insert content, specified by the parameter, to the beginning of each element in
the set of matched elements.

=over 4

=item prepend( content )

content: An element, HTML string, or jQuery object to insert at the beginning of
each element in the set of matched elements.

=item prepend( sub { my ($this,$index,$html) = @_; } )

A CODE ref that returns an HTML string to insert at the beginning of each
element in the set of matched elements. Receives the index position of the
element in the set and the old HTML value of the element as arguments.

same as jQuery .prepend( function(index, html) ) function
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/prepend/>

=cut

=head2 appendTo

Insert every element in the set of matched elements to the end of the target.

=over 4

=item appendTo( Target )

Target: A selector, element, HTML string, or jQuery object; the matched set of
elements will be inserted at the end of the element(s) specified by this parameter.
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/appendTo/>

=cut

=head2 prependTo

Insert every element in the set of matched elements to the beginning of the
target.

=over 4

=item prependTo( Target )

Target: A selector, element, HTML string, or jQuery object; the matched set of
elements will be inserted at the beginning of the element(s) specified by this
parameter.
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/prependTo/>

=cut

=head2 add

Add elements to the set of matched elements.

=over 4

=item add( selector )

selector: A string containing a selector expression to match additional
elements against.

=item add( selector, context )

selector: A string containing a selector expression to match additional
elements against.

context: Add some elements rooted against the specified context.
    
=item add( element )

elements: one or more elements to add to the set of matched elements.
    
=item add( <html> )

html: An HTML fragment to add to the set of matched elements.
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/add/>

=cut

=head2 andSelf

Add the previous set of elements on the stack to the current set.

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/andSelf/>

=cut

=head2 next

Get the immediately following sibling of each element in the set of matched
elements. If a selector is provided, it retrieves the next sibling only if it
matches that selector.

=over 4

=item next( [ selector ] )
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/next/>

=head2 nextAll

Get all following siblings of each element in the set of matched elements,
optionally filtered by a selector.

=over 4

=item nextAll( [ selector ] )
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/nextAll/>

=head2 nextUntil

Get all following siblings of each element up to but not including the element
matched by the selector.

=over 4

=item nextUntil( [ selector ] )
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/nextUntil/>

=head2 parent

Get the parent of each element in the current set of matched elements, optionally
filtered by a selector.

=over 4

=item parent( [ selector ] )
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/parent/>

=cut

=head2 children

Get the children of each element in the set of matched elements, optionally
filtered by a selector.

=over 4

=item children( [selector] )

=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/children/>

=cut

=head2 closest

Get the first ancestor element that matches the selector, beginning at the
current element and progressing up through the DOM tree.

=over 4

=item closest( selector )

=item closest( selector, context )
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/closest/>

=cut

=head2 contents

Get the children of each element in the set of matched elements, including text
and comment nodes.

=over 4

=item contents()
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/contents/>

=cut

=head2 end

End the most recent filtering operation in the current chain and
return the set of matched elements to its previous state.

=over 4

=item end()
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/end/>

=cut

=head2 eq

Reduce the set of matched elements to the one at the specified index.

=over 4

=item eq( index )

=item eq( -index )
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/eq/>

=cut

=head2 first

Reduce the set of matched elements to the first in the set.

=over 4

=item first( selector )
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/first/>

=cut

=head2 last

Reduce the set of matched elements to the final one in the set.

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/last/>

=cut

=head2 has

Reduce the set of matched elements to those that have a descendant that matches
the selector or DOM element.

=over 4

=item has( selector )

=item has( contained )
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/has/>

=cut

=head2 contains

=cut

=head2 is

Check the current matched set of elements against a selector
and return true if at least one of these elements matches the selector.

=over 4

=item is( selector )
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/is/>

=cut

=head2 not

Remove elements from the set of matched elements.

=over 4

=item not( selector )

=item not( function )
    
=item not( element )
    
=item not( jQuery object )
    
=back

Check jQuery API

L<http://api.jquery.com/not/>

=head2 replaceWith

=head2 wrap

=head2 unwrap

=head2 wrapInner

=head2 wrapAll

=head2 after

=head2 before

=head2 insertBefore

=head2 insertAfter

=head2 clone

=head2 length

returns number of matched elements

=head2 remove
