=head1 NAME

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB31 - ORDB::AU::Census2006 class for the bcp_cd_b31 table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB31->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB31->select(
      'where  > ? order by ',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
bcp_cd_b31 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b31> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB31> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB31> objects when called in scalar
 context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB31->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB31->count(
      'where  > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
bcp_cd_b31 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b31> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS


REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The bcp_cd_b31 table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE bcp_cd_b31 (
      region_id REAL NOT NULL,
      b4496 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4497 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4498 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4499 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4500 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4501 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4502 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4503 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4504 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4505 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4506 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4507 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4508 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4509 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4510 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4511 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4512 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4513 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4514 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4515 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4516 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4517 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4518 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4519 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4520 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4521 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4522 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4523 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4524 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4525 BLOB NOT NULL
  )


=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB31 is part of the L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> for more information.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

