=head1 NAME

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28 - ORDB::AU::Census2006 class for the bcp_cd_b28 table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28->select(
      'where  > ? order by ',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
bcp_cd_b28 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b28> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28> objects when called in scalar
 context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28->count(
      'where  > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
bcp_cd_b28 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b28> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS


REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The bcp_cd_b28 table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE bcp_cd_b28 (
      region_id REAL NOT NULL,
      b4413 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4414 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4415 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4416 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4417 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4418 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4419 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4420 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4421 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4422 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4423 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4424 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4425 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4426 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4427 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4428 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4429 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4430 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4431 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4432 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4433 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4434 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4435 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4436 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4437 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4438 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4439 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4440 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4441 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4442 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4443 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4444 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4445 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4446 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4447 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4448 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4449 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4450 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4451 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4452 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4453 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4454 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4455 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4456 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4457 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4458 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4459 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4460 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4461 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4462 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4463 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4464 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4465 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4466 BLOB NOT NULL
  )


=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB28 is part of the L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> for more information.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

