=head1 NAME

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38 - ORDB::AU::Census2006 class for the bcp_cd_b38 table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38->select(
      'where  > ? order by ',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
bcp_cd_b38 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b38> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38> objects when called in scalar
 context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38->count(
      'where  > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
bcp_cd_b38 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b38> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS


REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The bcp_cd_b38 table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE bcp_cd_b38 (
      region_id REAL NOT NULL,
      b4910 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4911 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4912 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4913 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4914 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4915 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4916 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4917 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4918 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4919 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4920 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4921 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4922 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4923 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4924 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4925 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4926 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4927 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4928 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4929 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4930 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4931 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4932 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4933 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4934 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4935 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4936 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4937 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4938 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4939 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4940 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4941 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4942 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4943 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4944 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4945 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4946 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4947 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4948 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4949 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4950 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4951 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4952 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4953 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4954 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4955 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4956 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4957 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4958 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4959 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4960 BLOB NOT NULL
  )


=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB38 is part of the L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> for more information.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

