=head1 NAME

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB14 - ORDB::AU::Census2006 class for the bcp_cd_b14 table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB14->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB14->select(
      'where  > ? order by ',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
bcp_cd_b14 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b14> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB14> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB14> objects when called in scalar
 context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB14->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB14->count(
      'where  > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
bcp_cd_b14 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b14> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS


REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The bcp_cd_b14 table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE bcp_cd_b14 (
      region_id REAL NOT NULL,
      b2204 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2205 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2206 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2207 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2208 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2209 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2210 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2211 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2212 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2213 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2214 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2215 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2216 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2217 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2218 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2219 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2220 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2221 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2222 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2223 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2224 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2225 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2226 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2227 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2228 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2229 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2230 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2231 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2232 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2233 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2234 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2235 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2236 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2237 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2238 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2239 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2240 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2241 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2242 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2243 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2244 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2245 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2246 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2247 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2248 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2249 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2250 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2251 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2252 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2253 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2254 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2255 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2256 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2257 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2258 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2259 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2260 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2261 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2262 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2263 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2264 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2265 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2266 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2267 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2268 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2269 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2270 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2271 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2272 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2273 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2274 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2275 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2276 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2277 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2278 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2279 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2280 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2281 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2282 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2283 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b2284 BLOB NOT NULL
  )


=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB14 is part of the L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> for more information.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

