=head1 NAME

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB30 - ORDB::AU::Census2006 class for the bcp_cd_b30 table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB30->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB30->select(
      'where  > ? order by ',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
bcp_cd_b30 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b30> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB30> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB30> objects when called in scalar
 context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB30->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB30->count(
      'where  > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
bcp_cd_b30 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b30> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS


REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The bcp_cd_b30 table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE bcp_cd_b30 (
      region_id REAL NOT NULL,
      b4475 NONE NULL,
      b4476 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4477 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4478 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4479 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4480 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4481 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4482 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4483 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4484 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4485 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4486 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4487 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4488 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4489 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4490 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4491 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4492 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4493 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4494 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4495 BLOB NOT NULL
  )


=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB30 is part of the L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> for more information.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

