=head1 NAME

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB26 - ORDB::AU::Census2006 class for the bcp_cd_b26 table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB26->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB26->select(
      'where  > ? order by ',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
bcp_cd_b26 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b26> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB26> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB26> objects when called in scalar
 context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB26->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB26->count(
      'where  > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
bcp_cd_b26 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b26> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS


REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The bcp_cd_b26 table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE bcp_cd_b26 (
      region_id REAL NOT NULL,
      b4315 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4316 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4317 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4318 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4319 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4320 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4321 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4322 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4323 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4324 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4325 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4326 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4327 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4328 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4329 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4330 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4331 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4332 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4333 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4334 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4335 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4336 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4337 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4338 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4339 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4340 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4341 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4342 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4343 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4344 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4345 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4346 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4347 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4348 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4349 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4350 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4351 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4352 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4353 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4354 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4355 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4356 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4357 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4358 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4359 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4360 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4361 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4362 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4363 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4364 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4365 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4366 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4367 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4368 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4369 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4370 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4371 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4372 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4373 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4374 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4375 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4376 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4377 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4378 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4379 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4380 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4381 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4382 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4383 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4384 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4385 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4386 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4387 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4388 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4389 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4390 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4391 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4392 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4393 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4394 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4395 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4396 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4397 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4398 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4399 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4400 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4401 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4402 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4403 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4404 BLOB NOT NULL
  )


=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB26 is part of the L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> for more information.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

