=head1 NAME

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB25 - ORDB::AU::Census2006 class for the bcp_cd_b25 table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB25->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB25->select(
      'where  > ? order by ',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
bcp_cd_b25 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b25> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB25> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB25> objects when called in scalar
 context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB25->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB25->count(
      'where  > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
bcp_cd_b25 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b25> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS


REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The bcp_cd_b25 table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE bcp_cd_b25 (
      region_id REAL NOT NULL,
      b4246 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4247 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4248 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4249 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4250 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4251 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4252 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4253 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4254 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4255 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4256 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4257 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4258 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4259 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4260 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4261 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4262 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4263 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4264 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4265 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4266 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4267 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4268 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4269 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4270 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4271 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4272 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4273 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4274 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4275 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4276 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4277 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4278 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4279 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4280 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4281 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4282 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4283 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4284 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4285 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4286 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4287 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4288 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4289 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4290 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4291 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4292 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4293 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4294 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4295 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4296 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4297 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4298 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4299 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4300 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4301 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4302 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4303 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4304 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4305 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4306 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4307 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4308 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4309 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4310 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4311 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4312 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4313 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4314 BLOB NOT NULL
  )


=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB25 is part of the L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> for more information.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

