=head1 NAME

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB36 - ORDB::AU::Census2006 class for the bcp_cd_b36 table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB36->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB36->select(
      'where  > ? order by ',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
bcp_cd_b36 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b36> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB36> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB36> objects when called in scalar
 context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB36->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB36->count(
      'where  > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
bcp_cd_b36 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b36> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS


REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The bcp_cd_b36 table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE bcp_cd_b36 (
      region_id REAL NOT NULL,
      b4802 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4803 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4804 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4805 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4806 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4807 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4808 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4809 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4810 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4811 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4812 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4813 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4814 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4815 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4816 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4817 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4818 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4819 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4820 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4821 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4822 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4823 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4824 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4825 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4826 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4827 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4828 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4829 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4830 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4831 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4832 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4833 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4834 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4835 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4836 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4837 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4838 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4839 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4840 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4841 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4842 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4843 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4844 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4845 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4846 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4847 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4848 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4849 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4850 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4851 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4852 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4853 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4854 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4855 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4856 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4857 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4858 BLOB NOT NULL
  )


=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB36 is part of the L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> for more information.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

