=head1 NAME

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB24 - ORDB::AU::Census2006 class for the bcp_cd_b24 table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB24->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB24->select(
      'where  > ? order by ',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
bcp_cd_b24 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b24> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB24> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB24> objects when called in scalar
 context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB24->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB24->count(
      'where  > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
bcp_cd_b24 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b24> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS


REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The bcp_cd_b24 table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE bcp_cd_b24 (
      region_id REAL NOT NULL,
      b4223 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4224 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4225 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4226 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4227 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4228 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4229 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4230 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4231 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4232 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4233 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4234 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4235 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4236 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4237 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4238 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4239 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4240 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4241 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4242 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4243 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4244 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4245 BLOB NOT NULL
  )


=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB24 is part of the L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> for more information.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

