=head1 NAME

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB37 - ORDB::AU::Census2006 class for the bcp_cd_b37 table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB37->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB37->select(
      'where  > ? order by ',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
bcp_cd_b37 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b37> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB37> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB37> objects when called in scalar
 context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB37->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB37->count(
      'where  > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
bcp_cd_b37 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b37> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS


REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The bcp_cd_b37 table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE bcp_cd_b37 (
      region_id REAL NOT NULL,
      b4859 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4860 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4861 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4862 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4863 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4864 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4865 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4866 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4867 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4868 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4869 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4870 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4871 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4872 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4873 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4874 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4875 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4876 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4877 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4878 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4879 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4880 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4881 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4882 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4883 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4884 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4885 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4886 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4887 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4888 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4889 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4890 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4891 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4892 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4893 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4894 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4895 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4896 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4897 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4898 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4899 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4900 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4901 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4902 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4903 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4904 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4905 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4906 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4907 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4908 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4909 BLOB NOT NULL
  )


=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB37 is part of the L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> for more information.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

