=head1 NAME

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB34 - ORDB::AU::Census2006 class for the bcp_cd_b34 table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB34->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB34->select(
      'where  > ? order by ',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
bcp_cd_b34 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b34> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB34> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB34> objects when called in scalar
 context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB34->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB34->count(
      'where  > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
bcp_cd_b34 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b34> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS


REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The bcp_cd_b34 table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE bcp_cd_b34 (
      region_id REAL NOT NULL,
      b4676 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4677 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4678 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4679 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4680 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4681 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4682 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4683 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4684 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4685 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4686 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4687 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4688 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4689 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4690 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4691 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4692 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4693 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4694 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4695 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4696 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4697 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4698 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4699 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4700 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4701 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4702 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4703 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4704 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4705 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4706 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4707 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4708 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4709 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4710 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4711 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4712 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4713 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4714 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4715 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4716 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4717 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4718 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4719 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4720 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4721 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4722 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4723 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4724 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4725 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4726 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4727 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4728 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4729 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4730 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4731 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4732 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4733 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4734 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4735 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4736 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4737 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4738 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4739 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4740 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4741 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4742 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4743 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4744 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4745 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4746 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4747 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4748 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4749 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4750 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4751 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4752 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4753 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4754 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4755 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4756 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4757 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4758 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4759 BLOB NOT NULL
  )


=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB34 is part of the L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> for more information.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

