=head1 NAME

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB35 - ORDB::AU::Census2006 class for the bcp_cd_b35 table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB35->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB35->select(
      'where  > ? order by ',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
bcp_cd_b35 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b35> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB35> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB35> objects when called in scalar
 context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB35->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB35->count(
      'where  > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
bcp_cd_b35 table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_cd_b35> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS


REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The bcp_cd_b35 table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE bcp_cd_b35 (
      region_id REAL NOT NULL,
      b4760 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4761 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4762 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4763 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4764 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4765 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4766 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4767 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4768 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4769 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4770 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4771 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4772 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4773 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4774 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4775 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4776 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4777 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4778 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4779 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4780 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4781 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4782 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4783 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4784 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4785 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4786 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4787 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4788 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4789 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4790 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4791 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4792 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4793 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4794 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4795 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4796 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4797 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4798 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4799 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4800 BLOB NOT NULL,
      b4801 BLOB NOT NULL
  )


=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpCdB35 is part of the L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> for more information.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

