=head1 NAME

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpHeirachy - ORDB::AU::Census2006 class for the bcp_heirachy table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpHeirachy->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpHeirachy->select(
      'where  > ? order by ',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
bcp_heirachy table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_heirachy> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpHeirachy> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an C<ARRAY> of B<ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpHeirachy> objects when called in scalar
 context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpHeirachy->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpHeirachy->count(
      'where  > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
bcp_heirachy table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM bcp_heirachy> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS


REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The bcp_heirachy table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE bcp_heirachy (
      cd REAL NOT NULL,
      ste REAL NOT NULL,
      sla REAL NOT NULL,
      ssd REAL NOT NULL,
      sd REAL NOT NULL,
      lga TEXT NOT NULL,
      sdi BLOB NOT NULL,
      msr REAL NOT NULL,
      sr REAL NOT NULL,
      srs TEXT NOT NULL,
      sos TEXT NOT NULL,
      sosr TEXT NOT NULL,
      ucl TEXT NOT NULL,
      ced TEXT NOT NULL,
      sed TEXT NOT NULL,
      poa TEXT NOT NULL,
      ssc TEXT NOT NULL,
      ireg TEXT NOT NULL,
      iare TEXT NOT NULL,
      iloc TEXT NOT NULL
  )


=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::AU::Census2006::BcpHeirachy is part of the L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::AU::Census2006> for more information.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

