=pod

=head1 NAME

DateTime::Format::Human - Format times in "spoken language"

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use DateTime;
    use DateTime::Format::Human;

    my $dtfh = DateTime::Format::Human->new(
        evening => 19,
        night   => 23,
    );

    my $spoken_time = $dtfh->format_datetime( DateTime->now );

    print "The time is now $spoken_time\n";

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides a "vague" rendering of the time into natural
language; it's originally intended for text-to-speech applications
and other speech-based interfaces. 

=head1 USAGE

=head2 Import Parameters

This module accepts no arguments to it's C<import> method and exports no
I<symbols>.

=head2 Methods

=head3 Constructors

=over 4

=item * new(...)

Accepts a optional hash and returns a L<DateTime::Format::Human> object.

    my $dtfh = DateTime::Format::Human->new(
        evening => 19,
        night   => 23,
    );

=over 4

=item * evening

Sets the hour at which afternoon turns to evening.

This key defaults to the value of 18.

=item * night

Sets the hour at which evening turns to night.

This key defaults to the value of 22.

=back

=back

=head3 Object Methods

=over 4

=item * format_datetime

Accepts a L<DateTime> object.

Returns a string representing the time in spoken human language.

=back

=head1 CREDITS

Simon Cozens (SIMON) who wrote L<Time::Human> from which this module is a
genetic descendant.

Everyone at the DateTime C<Asylum>.

=head1 SUPPORT

Support for this module is provided via the datetime@perl.org email list. See
http://lists.perl.org/ for more details

=head1 AUTHOR

Joshua Hoblitt <jhoblitt@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2004  Joshua Hoblitt.  All rights reserved.  Sections of the code
and documentation are Copyright (C) 2001  Simon Cozens.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included with
this module, or in L<perlartistic> and L<perlgpl> Pods as supplied with Perl
5.8.1 and later.

=head1 SEE ALSO

datetime@perl.org mailing list

http://datetime.perl.org/

L<DateTime>

=cut
