=head1 NAME

Mozilla::Persona::Aliases - multiple personalities

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mozilla::Persona::Aliases is extended by
   Mozilla::Persona::Aliases::MailConfig

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # add to the configation of $domain.json
  { ...
    "aliases" : {
      "class" : "Mozilla::Persona::Aliases::MailConfig"
      ...options for new()...
    },
    ...
  }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Aliases objects check whether a certain email-address relates
to the specified user.

Ideas/implementations for aliases:

=over 4

=item * L<Mozilla::Persona::Aliases::MailConfig|Mozilla::Persona::Aliases::MailConfig>

Use the alias tables of the standard email programs to expand the
username.  All unix mailers use the same "aliases" files.

=back

=head1 METHOD

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Mozilla::Persona::Aliases-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=back

=head2 Aliases

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<for>(USER)

Return all the alternative names for USER, by default only itself.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mozilla-Persona distribution version 0.12,
built on November 22, 2012. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  The code is based on the MulkyID code by
Matthias Benkard.

Persona is described at F<http://www.mozilla.org/persona/>

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights of the perl code and the related documentation by
2012 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

