=head1 NAME

Business::BancaSella::Gateway - Abstract class for Gateway compatibility parameter info

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  Abstract Class...you shouldn't use it directly. 
  See Business::BancaSella::Encode::Gateway for encoding or
  Business::BancaSella::Encode::Gateway for dencoding.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is an abstract class for Gateway compatibility payment system implementing all property passed
and received during payment transaction with the international credit card 
circuits between Banca Sella gateway.

=head2 PROPERTY

=over 2

=item shopping

Unique identification number assigned from Banca Sella to trader.
Using during: Encode

=item amount

The amount of the transaction. The currency is related to the value
of currency method. Default is expressed in Euro.
Using during: Encode

=item id

An identification attributed to the transaction by trader. It will be returned
in the reply response of payment system.
Using during: Encode, Decode

=item otp

During Encode should be one of the "one time password" present in the ric file.
During Decode must be one of the "one time password" present in the ris file.
Using during: Encode, Decode

=item result 

Transaction result. It can be "KO" or the authcode of banking circuit systems
Using during: Decode

=item authcode 

Authorization transaction Code
Using during: Decode

=item user_params

It's a reference to hash of key => value user personalized parameters like 
defined in the control panel of Banca Sella profile manager.

=item currency

It can assume values "eur" of "itl" for the EURO currency or for the old italian
lire currency. Default value is "eur".

=item anguage

Set the language of the Banca Sella response pages. It can be set to one of this
values: "italian", "french", "spanish" or "english". Default is "italian".

=item 

=back

=head2 METHOD

=over 2

=item uri

Using during Encode return the formatted uri to pass all prepared value to 
Banca Sella online payment system

=item form(frmName)

Using during Encode return a form html code named "frmName" ready for passing
all prepared value to Banca Sella online payment system

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Bruni Emiliano, info@ebruni.it

=head1 LICENSE

Business::BancaSella::Gateway : Abstract class for Gateway compatibility parameter info with Perl 
Copyright (C) 2001 Bruni Emiliano (info@ebruni.it)

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of
either:

a) the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version
1, or (at your option) any later version, or

b) the "Artistic License" which comes with this module.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See
either the GNU General Public License or the Artistic License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the Artistic License with this module, 
in the file ARTISTIC.  If not, I'll be glad to provide one.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if
not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA
02111-1307 USA

=head1 SEE ALSO

Business::BancaSella::Decode::Gestpay

=cut
