=head1 NAME

Business::BancaSella::Gestpay - Abstract class for Gestpay parameter info

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  Abstract Class...you shouldn't use it directly. 
  See Business::BancaSella::Encode::Gestpay for encoding or
  Business::BancaSella::Encode::Gestpay for dencoding.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is an abstract class for Gestpay payment system implementing all property passed
and received during payment transaction with the international credit card 
circuits between Banca Sella gateway.

=head2 PROPERTY

=over 2

=item shopping

Unique identification number assigned from Banca Sella to trader.
Using during: Encode, Decode

=item currency

The currency in witch the amount property is expressed. Can be one of these:
"eur" or "itl".
Using during: Encode,Decode

=item amount

The amount of the transaction expressed in the currency showed by homonym 
property.
Using during: Encode,Decode

=item id

An identification attributed to the transaction by trader. It will be returned
in the reply response of payment system.
Using during: Encode, Decode

=item otp

During Encode should be one of the "one time password" present in the ric file.
During Decode must be one of the "one time password" present in the ris file.
Using during: Encode, Decode

=item cardnumber

Credit card number. It should be passed from trader's site to Banca Sella for
checking if you wish to acquire credit card number inside you site and using
Banca Sella system only for commit transaction.
Using during: Encode

=item expmonth

If cardnumber is given, you must set this property to expired month of credit 
card.
Using during: Encode

=item expyear

If cardnumber is given, you must set this property to expired year of credit 
card.
Using during: Encode

=item name

First and second name of the purchaser 
Using during: Encode,Decode

=item mail

Mail of the purchaser
Using during: Encode,Decode

=item language

Language in which will show the Banca Sella's page used for having credit card
information. Can be one of these: 'italian','english','spanish','french'.
Using during: Encode

=item result 

Transaction result. It can be "OK" or "KO"
Using during: Decode

=item authcode 

Authorization transaction Code
Using during: Decode

=item bankid 

Transaction identification number assigned to the transaction by Gestpay.
Using during: Decode

=item errcode 

If result is "KO" this is the error code.
Using during: Decode

=item errstr 

If result is "KO" here you can find the error string description
Using during: Decode

=back

=head2 METHOD

=over 2

=item uri

Using during Encode, return the formatted uri to pass all prepared value to 
Banca Sella online payment system

=item form(frmName)

Using during Encode, return a form html code named "frmName" ready for passing
all prepared value to Banca Sella online payment system

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Bruni Emiliano, info@ebruni.it

=head1 SEE ALSO

  Business::BancaSella::Encode::Gestpay
  Business::BancaSella::Decode::Gestpay

=cut
