# PODNAME: Neo4j::Types::DateTime
# ABSTRACT: Represents a Neo4j temporal instant value

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Neo4j::Types::DateTime - Represents a Neo4j temporal instant value

=head1 VERSION

version 2.00

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 $days = $dt->days;
 $seconds = $dt->seconds;
 $nanoseconds = $dt->nanoseconds;
 
 $epoch = $days * 86400 + $seconds;
 $epoch = $dt->epoch;
 $epoch_hires = $epoch + $nanoseconds / 1e9;
 
 $tz_name = $dt->tz_name;    # like Europe/Paris
 $seconds = $dt->tz_offset;  # like 3600
 
 $neo4j_type = $dt->type;    # like ZONED DATETIME

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Represents a temporal instant value in Neo4j. Potentially includes
date, time, and timezone components.

Neo4j offers the following temporal instant types:

=over

=item * C<DATE>

=item * C<LOCAL TIME> E<8211> no time zone information

=item * C<ZONED TIME> E<8211> has a time zone offset in seconds

=item * C<LOCAL DATETIME> E<8211> no time zone information

=item * C<ZONED DATETIME> E<8211> has a time zone offset in seconds,
or a time zone name from the IANA Olson database

=back

This interface is designed to closely match the semantics of the
Neo4j temporal types. For actually working with dates and times
in Perl, the modules recommended by L<Task::Kensho::Dates> are
better suited in most cases. The conversion is easiest using
the Epoch value:

 $dt = Neo4j::Types::Generic::DateTime->new( ... );
 $epoch_hires = $dt->epoch + $dt->nanoseconds / 1e9;
 
 $datetime = DateTime->from_epoch( epoch => $epoch_hires );
 $moment   = Time::Moment->from_epoch( $epoch_hires );
 $piece    = Time::Piece->new( $dt->epoch );

DateTime values may be returned from a Neo4j database server.
Generic DateTime values may also be created locally.
See L<Neo4j::Types::Generic/"DateTime">.

I<Supported in Neo4j S<version 3.4> and above.>

=head1 METHODS

L<Neo4j::Types::DateTime> specifies the following methods.

=head2 days

 $days = $dt->days;

Return the number of full days since the Unix epoch.
For C<* TIME> values, return C<undef>.

For the day identified by C<$days>, the
L<Julian Date|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Julian_date>
is exactly C<$days + 2440587.5>.

=head2 epoch

 $seconds = $dt->epoch;

Return the full seconds since the Unix epoch, ignoring
leap seconds. Values of the type C<TIME> are interpreted
as referring to S<1 January 1970>.

=head2 nanoseconds

 $nanoseconds = $dt->nanoseconds;

Return the nanoseconds since the start of the second identified
by C<seconds()>. For C<DATE> values, return C<undef>.

=head2 seconds

 $seconds = $dt->seconds;

Return the seconds since the start of the day.
For C<DATE> values, return C<undef>.

=head2 type

 $neo4j_type = $dt->type;

Return the Neo4j type name for this value as a string.
One of C<DATE>, C<LOCAL TIME>, C<ZONED TIME>,
C<LOCAL DATETIME>, C<ZONED DATETIME>.

=head2 tz_name

 $tz_name = $dt->tz_name;

Return the name of the time zone to be used for display purposes.
The name refers to the IANA Olson time zone database.
For example, the time zone name for California would be
C<America/Los_Angeles>.
For C<DATE> values and C<LOCAL *> values, return C<undef>.

For a display time zone defined by standard offset only, this
method will return a zone name in the C<Etc> area. Note that
such zone names follow the POSIX sign convention, which uses
a positive sign west of Greenwich. This is the inverse of the
S<ISO convention> usually used for time zone offsets.

=head2 tz_offset

 $seconds = $dt->tz_offset;

Return the number of seconds to be added to the time for display
purposes. A positive sign is used east of Greenwich.
For example, for standard time in California, the offset
from UTC would be -28800 seconds.
For C<DATE> values and C<LOCAL *> values, return C<undef>.

To define a display time zone, it is sufficient for either the
time zone name or a numerical time offset to be available.
If this method returns C<undef>, you need to use C<tz_name()>
instead.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item * L<Neo4j::Types>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Generic/"DateTime">

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::ImplementorNotes/"DateTime">

=item * L<Neo4j::Bolt::DateTime>

=item * L<Neo4j::Driver::Types>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Arne Johannessen <ajnn@cpan.org>

If you contact me by email, please make sure you include the word
"Perl" in your subject header to help beat the spam filters.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2021-2023 by Arne Johannessen.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Artistic License 2.0 or (at your option) the same terms
as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
