# PODNAME: Neo4j::Types::Duration
# ABSTRACT: Represents a Neo4j temporal duration value

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Neo4j::Types::Duration - Represents a Neo4j temporal duration value

=head1 VERSION

version 2.00

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 $months      = $duration->months;
 $days        = $duration->days;
 $seconds     = $duration->seconds;
 $nanoseconds = $duration->nanoseconds;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Represents a temporal duration value in Neo4j.
Includes months, days, seconds, and nanoseconds components,
which are all expressed as integer numbers.
The length of the duration is defined by the combination
of these four components.

Duration values may be returned from a Neo4j database server.
Generic Duration values may also be created locally.
See L<Neo4j::Types::Generic/"Duration">.

I<Supported in Neo4j S<version 3.4> and above.>

=head1 METHODS

L<Neo4j::Types::Duration> specifies the following methods.

=head2 days

 $days = $duration->days;

Return the size of the "days" component of this duration.

=head2 months

 $months = $duration->months;

Return the size of the "months" component of this duration.

=head2 nanoseconds

 $nanoseconds = $duration->nanoseconds;

Return the size of the "nanoseconds" component of this duration.

=head2 seconds

 $seconds = $duration->seconds;

Return the size of the "seconds" component of this duration.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item * L<Neo4j::Types>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Generic/"Duration">

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::ImplementorNotes/"Duration">

=item * L<Neo4j::Bolt::Duration>

=item * L<Neo4j::Driver::Types>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Arne Johannessen <ajnn@cpan.org>

If you contact me by email, please make sure you include the word
"Perl" in your subject header to help beat the spam filters.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2021-2023 by Arne Johannessen.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Artistic License 2.0 or (at your option) the same terms
as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
