# PODNAME: Neo4j::Types::Generic
# ABSTRACT: Generic Neo4j type implementations

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Neo4j::Types::Generic - Generic Neo4j type implementations

=head1 VERSION

version 2.00

=head1 OVERVIEW

The L<Neo4j::Types> distribution includes generic
implementations of some Neo4j property types.
This enables users to easily create values of these types
locally, for example to pass these back to Neo4j in a query
parameter.

Neo4j drivers may provide similar packages, which might
be better optimised for use with the respective driver.
As long as each of them conforms to the appropriate interface
from L<Neo4j::Types>, they should all be interchangeable.

=head1 ByteArray

Neo4j::Types::Generic::ByteArray offers the following method
in addition to the one defined in L<Neo4j::Types::ByteArray>.

=head2 new

 $bytearray = Neo4j::Types::Generic::ByteArray->new( $bytes );

Create a new generic Neo4j byte array value.
The parameter C<$bytes> is expected to be a scalar string.

=head1 DateTime

Neo4j::Types::Generic::DateTime offers the following methods
in addition to those defined in L<Neo4j::Types::DateTime>.

=head2 new

 $dt = Neo4j::Types::Generic::DateTime->new({
   days        => $days,
   seconds     => $seconds,
   nanoseconds => $nanoseconds,
   tz_offset   => $offset_seconds,
   tz_name     => $iana_tz_name,
 });
 $dt = Neo4j::Types::Generic::DateTime->new( $epoch );
 $dt = Neo4j::Types::Generic::DateTime->new( $epoch, $tz );

Create a new generic temporal instant value.
For the description of the parameters, see
L<Neo4j::Types::DateTime/"METHODS">.
The type of the value will be intrinsically defined by the
parameters you provide.

Instead of giving the parameters hash ref, you can alternatively
give the Unix epoch with or without time zone identification.
This will always create a C<LOCAL DATETIME> or C<ZONED DATETIME>
value, as appropriate.
If C<$tz> begins with a letter, it will be treated as an IANA
Olson time zone database entry name; if it begins with a digit
or a sign, it will be treated as an offset in seconds.

=head1 Duration

Neo4j::Types::Generic::Duration offers the following methods
in addition to those defined in L<Neo4j::Types::Duration>.

=head2 new

 $dt = Neo4j::Types::Generic::Duration->new({
   months      => $months,
   days        => $days,
   seconds     => $seconds,
   nanoseconds => $nanoseconds,
 });

Create a new generic temporal duration value.
For the description of the parameters, see
L<Neo4j::Types::Duration/"METHODS">.
Missing parameters will be assumed to have the value C<0>.

=head1 Point

Neo4j::Types::Generic::Point offers the following methods
in addition to those defined in L<Neo4j::Types::Point>.

=head2 height

 $value = $point->height;

Alias for L<C<Z()>|/"Z">.

=head2 latitude

 $value = $point->latitude;

Alias for L<C<Y()>|/"Y">.

=head2 longitude

 $value = $point->longitude;

Alias for L<C<X()>|/"X">.

=head2 new

 $point = Neo4j::Types::Generic::Point->new($neo4j_srid, @coordinates);

Creates a new generic Point instance with the specified value.

This method will fail if the SRID provided is not supported by Neo4j
or if it requires a greater number of coordinates than provided.
See L<Neo4j::Types::Point/"srid">.

=head2 X

 $value = $point->X;  # uppercase X

Retrieve the point's first ordinate, also known as the abscissa.
Commonly used for the horizontal axis in an Euclidean plane or for
the geographical longitude.

=head2 Y

 $value = $point->Y;  # uppercase Y

Retrieve the point's second ordinate. Commonly used for the vertical
axis in an Euclidean plane or for the geographical latitude.

=head2 Z

 $value = $point->Z;  # uppercase Z

Retrieve the point's third ordinate. Commonly used for height.

For points in coordinate systems that have no more than two
dimensions, this method returns C<undef>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item * L<Neo4j::Types>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::ByteArray>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::DateTime>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Duration>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Point>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::ImplementorNotes>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Arne Johannessen <ajnn@cpan.org>

If you contact me by email, please make sure you include the word
"Perl" in your subject header to help beat the spam filters.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2021-2023 by Arne Johannessen.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Artistic License 2.0 or (at your option) the same terms
as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
