# PODNAME: Neo4j::Types::ImplementorNotes
# ABSTRACT: Guidance for driver authors

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Neo4j::Types::ImplementorNotes - Guidance for driver authors

=head1 VERSION

version 2.00

=head1 OVERVIEW

When writing a Neo4j driver in Perl, you'll need to consider how to
match Cypher types to Perl types and vice versa. This document tries
to give implementation advice for each Cypher type.

Some Cypher types are fairly generic and seemingly straightforward to
map to Perl. However, there are some pitfalls, which are discussed
below. Other types (such as Neo4j nodes) are more specialised,
requiring a custom Perl data structure. The L<Neo4j::Types>
distribution defines interfaces with method behaviours
that may be implemented by such data structures.

B<You probably don't need to read this document,> unless you happen
to be writing a Neo4j driver or other software that inherits from
L<Neo4j::Types> modules or conforms to their interface.

=head1 STRUCTURAL TYPES

Neo4j structural types are nodes, relationships, paths.
They may be represented as:

=over

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Node>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Relationship>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Path>

=back

These modules should be treated as definitions of an
object-oriented interface with specific behaviour for others
to implement.

While these modules currently offer default implementations of
most methods, it is B<strongly recommended> for implementors to
write their own method implementations for their own data
structures in order to maintain encapsulation and to reduce
the risk of action at a distance. The default implementations
may be removed in future and should not be relied upon.

The methods defined by this distribution are loosely modelled
on the Neo4j Driver API. They don't match that API precisely
because the official Neo4j drivers don't always use the exact
same method names for their functionality, and the
L<Neo4j Driver API Spec|https://neo4j.com/docs/bolt/current/driver-api/>
currently doesn't discuss these methods.

=head2 Node

See L<Neo4j::Types::Node> for the methods defined for that
module's interface.

The recommended way to have your own module conform to the interface
is to write implementations for all the methods, then declare
L<Neo4j::Types::Node> as a parent type.

 package Local::Node;
 use parent 'Neo4j::Types::Node';
 
 sub get        ($self, $property_key) {...}
 sub properties ($self) {...}
 
 sub labels     ($self) {...}
 
 sub id         ($self) {...}
 sub element_id ($self) {...}

You are free in your choice of the internal data structure.
While L<Neo4j::Types::Node> currently provides default
implementations of most methods, these only exist because some
versions of L<Neo4j::Bolt::Node> might expect them.
They may be removed in future and should not be relied upon.

It is recommended that the C<id()> method returns a number for
which L<builtin/"created_as_number"> would be truthy (S<e. g.>
C<0 + $id>). This can make roundtrips easier.

When the element ID is unavailable, C<element_id()> must by
default issue a warning and must otherwise behave like an alias
for C<id()>. When the S<element ID> I<is> available, C<id()>
may optionally issue a deprecation warning. The behaviour of
C<id()> when the legacy ID is unavailable is undefined.

For implementations geared only towards S<Neo4j 4> and older,
C<element_id()> is currently an optional operation.
While C<id()> is currently mandatory, it may similarly become
an optional operation for newer Neo4j versions in future.

The C<labels()> and C<properties()> methods must not return
C<undef>. If there are no labels or properties, an empty list
or an empty hash reference must be returned.
(The default implementations of methods in L<Neo4j::Types::Node>
currently also handle C<undef> in the data structure for bug
compatibility with L<Neo4j::Bolt::CTypeHandlers>, but this may
change in future.)

For optimal performance, it is recommended for C<properties()>
to always return a reference to the same hash. While it is
legal to make a new defensive copy every time the method is
called or to return a reference to a tied readonly hash, you
should consider the performance and usability problems this may
cause. Note that L<locked hashes|Hash::Util/"Restricted hashes">
would cause an exception on trying to access a non-existent
property, which is not allowed. Make sure any non-standard
behaviour your implementation may have is well documented.

Trying to access a property that doesn't exist must yield the
scalar value C<undef>, both for the C<get()> method as well as
the hash reference returned by C<properties()>. Expect users who
wish to determine whether a particular property key does in fact
not exist or whether it simply has the value C<undef> to use
the idiom C<< exists $node->properties->{$key} >>.

=head2 Relationship

See L<Neo4j::Types::Relationship> for the methods defined
for that module's interface.

The recommended way to have your own module conform to the interface
is to write implementations for all the methods, then declare
L<Neo4j::Types::Relationship> as a parent type.

 package Local::Relationship;
 use parent 'Neo4j::Types::Relationship';
 
 sub get        ($self, $property_key) {...}
 sub properties ($self) {...}
 
 sub type       ($self) {...}
 
 sub id         ($self) {...}
 sub start_id   ($self) {...}
 sub end_id     ($self) {...}
 
 sub element_id       ($self) {...}
 sub start_element_id ($self) {...}
 sub end_element_id   ($self) {...}

You are free in your choice of the internal data structure.
While L<Neo4j::Types::Relationship> currently provides default
implementations of most methods, these only exist because some
versions of L<Neo4j::Bolt::Relationship> might expect them.
They may be removed in future and should not be relied upon.

It is recommended that the methods C<id()>, C<start_id()>,
and C<end_id()> return a number for which
L<builtin/"created_as_number"> would be truthy
(S<e. g.> C<0 + $id>). This can make roundtrips easier.

For C<element_id()>, C<id()> and related methods, the same
considerations as above for C<element_id()> and C<id()>
on L<nodes|/"Node"> apply.

For the C<get()> and C<properties()> methods, the same
considerations as above for C<get()> and C<properties()>
on L<nodes|/"Node"> apply.

=head2 Path

See L<Neo4j::Types::Path> for the methods defined for that
module's interface.

The recommended way to have your own module conform to the interface
is to write implementations for all the methods, then declare
L<Neo4j::Types::Path> as a parent type.

 package Local::Path;
 use parent 'Neo4j::Types::Path';
 
 sub elements      ($self) {...}
 sub nodes         ($self) {...}
 sub relationships ($self) {...}

You are free in your choice of the internal data structure.
While L<Neo4j::Types::Path> currently provides default
implementations of all methods, these only exist because some
versions of L<Neo4j::Bolt::Path> might expect them.
They may be removed in future and should not be relied upon.

=head1 SCALAR TYPES

Values of the following types can in principle be stored as a Perl
scalar. However, Perl scalars by themselves cannot cleanly separate
between all of these types. This can make it difficult to convert
scalars back to Cypher types (for example for the use in Cypher
statements parameters).

=head2 Number (Integer or Float)

Both Neo4j and Perl internally distinguish between integer numbers
and floating-point numbers. Neo4j stores these as Java C<long> and
C<double>, which both are signed 64-bit types. In Perl, their
precision is whatever was used by the C compiler to build your
Perl executable (usually 64-bit types as well on modern systems).

Both Neo4j and Perl will automatically convert integers to floats
to calculate an expression if necessary (like for C<1 + 0.5>), so
the distinction between integers and floats often doesn't matter.
However, integers and floats are both just scalars in Perl, which
may make it difficult to create a float with an integer value in
Neo4j (for example, trying to store C<$x = 2.0 + 1> as a property
may result in the integer C<3> being stored in Neo4j).

L<perlnumber> explains further details on type conversions in Perl.
In particular, Perl will also try to automatically convert between
strings and numbers, but Neo4j will not. This may have unintended
consequences, as the following example demonstrates.

 $id = get_id_from_node($node);  # returns an integer
 say "The ID is $id.";           # silently turns $id into a string
 $node = get_node_by_id($id);    # fails: ID must be integer

Implementations can avoid this latter problem on Perl
L<versions 5.35.9|perl5360delta/"Internal Changes"> and newer,
which offer stable tracking of whether a value was initially
created as number or as string. On earlier Perl versions, the
onus to avoid it is on users, who need to use unary coercions.

 $string = '' . $number;
 $number =  0 + $string;

The L<JSON::Types> distribution offers a way to do unary
coercions in a way that might be more expressive.
In future, L<Neo4j::Types> might be extended in a similar fashion.

Note that while Neo4j easily handles the special floating point
values -0.0, NaN and ±Infinity, Perl support for these values has
various issues (that may vary by platform). See L<Data::Float> for
details.

=head2 String

Perl scalars are a good match for Neo4j strings. However, in some
situations, scalar strings may easily be confused with numbers or
byte arrays in Perl.

Neo4j strings are always encoded in UTF-8. Perl supports this as
well, though string scalars that only contain ASCII are usually
not treated as UTF-8 internally for efficiency reasons.

=head2 Boolean

When reading a boolean from Neo4j, a value representing
C<true> must evaluate truthy in Perl and a Neo4j value
representing C<false> must not. Values must be trackable
as boolean by default to provide round-trip capability.

The following two pairs of Perl values meet these
requirements and should be used by default:

=over

=item On Perl version 5.36 and newer:

L<C<builtin::true>|builtin/"true"> and
L<C<builtin::false>|builtin/"false">

=item On older Perl versions:

C<L<JSON::PP>::true> and
C<L<JSON::PP>::false>

=back

When running on v5.36 or newer, both of these boolean types
should be accepted as query parameters for writing to Neo4j.

Additional values may optionally be accepted, such as
C<\1> and C<\0>, L<boolean>, or L<Types::Bool>.
There is a variety of CPAN modules representing booleans
because Perl only gained useful native boolean values
L<in S<version v5.36>|perl5360delta/"Stable boolean tracking">.
Modules like L<builtin::compat> might help
with tracking native bools in earlier versions.

=for comment (Internally, Perl has long had native boolean values,
but it was difficult to track their boolean status,
especially outside XS code. See L<perlapi/"boolSV">,
L<makamaka/JSON-PP#49|https://github.com/makamaka/JSON-PP/issues/49>.)

Optionally, your implementation may offer users a way
to choose the boolean values. This document makes no
recommendation as to the interface for such a setting.

=for comment Some of the Perl JSON modules are currently (2023) in the
process of adding support for core booleans. It may be
useful to wait until those implementations are completed
and then follow whichever approach they chose. See also:
L<JSON::PP/"boolean_values">,
L<rurban/Cpanel-JSON-XS#214|https://github.com/rurban/Cpanel-JSON-XS/issues/214>

=head2 Null

The Cypher C<null> value can be neatly implemented as Perl C<undef>.

=head2 Bytes

Byte arrays are not first-class Cypher values, but still have
some limited support as pass-through values in Neo4j.
They may be represented in Perl as unblessed string scalars
with their C<UTF8> flag turned off, or alternatively as
L<Neo4j::Types::ByteArray>.

The recommended way to have your own module conform to
the L<Neo4j::Types::ByteArray> interface is to write an
implementation for the following method, then declare
that module as a parent type.

 package Local::ByteArray;
 use parent 'Neo4j::Types::ByteArray';
 
 sub as_string ($self) {...}

You are free in your choice of the internal data structure.
You may wish to provide a C<new()> constructor for your module.

=head1 SPATIAL TYPES

The only spatial type currently offered by Neo4j is the point.
It may be represented as L<Neo4j::Types::Point>.

It might be possible to (crudely) represent other spatial types by
using a list of points plus external metadata, or in a Neo4j graph
by treating the graph itself as a spatial representation.

=head2 Point

See L<Neo4j::Types::Point> for the methods defined for that
module's interface.

The recommended way to have your own module conform to the interface
is to write implementations for all the methods, then declare
L<Neo4j::Types::Point> as a parent type.

 package Local::Point;
 use parent 'Neo4j::Types::Point';
 
 sub srid        ($self) {...}
 sub coordinates ($self) {...}

You are free in your choice of the internal data structure.
L<Neo4j::Types::Point> used to provide default implementations
of all methods, but these have been moved to
L<Neo4j::Types::Generic::Point> with version 2.00.
The C<new()> method in L<Neo4j::Types::Point> still exists for
backwards compatibility, but it may be removed in future and
should not be relied upon.

It is recommended that all methods return numbers for which
L<builtin/"created_as_number"> would be truthy
(S<e. g.> C<0 + $srid>). This can make roundtrips easier.

=head1 TEMPORAL TYPES

Cypher temporal types exist in two varieties:
temporal instants (DateTime) and durations.
They may be represented as:

=over

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::DateTime>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Duration>

=back

These modules should be treated as definitions of an
object-oriented interface with specific behaviour for others
to implement.

=head2 DateTime

See L<Neo4j::Types::DateTime> for the methods defined for that
module's interface.

The recommended way to have your own module conform to the interface
is to write implementations for at least the following methods,
then declare L<Neo4j::Types::DateTime> as a parent type.

 package Local::DateTime;
 use parent 'Neo4j::Types::DateTime';
 
 sub days        ($self) {...}
 sub seconds     ($self) {...}
 sub nanoseconds ($self) {...}
 sub tz_name     ($self) {...}
 sub tz_offset   ($self) {...}

Implementations for the remaining methods C<epoch()> and
C<type()> are provided in L<Neo4j::Types::DateTime> and you
may inherit them. But you may also override them as required.
Additionally, you may wish to provide a C<new()> constructor
for your module.

When no IANA time zone name is available, the C<tz_name()> method
must generate it from the offset if possible. Note that the signs
in IANA time zone names are reversed from the S<ISO definition>.
Available zone names range from C<Etc/GMT-14> (east)
to C<Etc/GMT+12> (west).

When no time zone offset is available, implementations may
determine it from the IANA database, but this is not required.

It is recommended that numbers returned by methods are values
for which L<builtin/"created_as_number"> would be truthy
(S<e. g.> C<0 + $days>). This can make roundtrips easier.

=head2 Duration

See L<Neo4j::Types::Duration> for the methods defined for that
module's interface.

The recommended way to have your own module conform to the interface
is to write implementations for the following methods,
then declare L<Neo4j::Types::Duration> as a parent type.

 package Local::DateTime;
 use parent 'Neo4j::Types::DateTime';
 
 sub months      ($self) {...}
 sub days        ($self) {...}
 sub seconds     ($self) {...}
 sub nanoseconds ($self) {...}

You are free in your choice of the internal data structure.
You may wish to provide a C<new()> constructor for your module.

It is recommended that all methods return numbers for which
L<builtin/"created_as_number"> would be truthy
(S<e. g.> C<0 + $days>). This can make roundtrips easier.

=head1 LIST AND MAP

Constructed types, formerly known as composite types, are:

=over

=item * List (also known as Array)

=item * Map (also known as Dictionary)

=back

In Perl, these types match simple unblessed array and hash
references very nicely.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Generic implementations of some types are available, see
L<Neo4j::Types::Generic>. Their constructors currently bless
to C<__PACKAGE__> to discourage inheritance (subject to change).
The source code of generic types might be of interest.

A number of Perl distributions implement Cypher types:

=over

=item * L<Neo4j::Bolt/"Return Types">

=item * L<Neo4j::Driver::Types>

=item * L<REST::Neo4p::Entity>

=back

Not all of these aim to conform to L<Neo4j::Types>.
The source code of those that do might be of interest.

Several parts of the Neo4j documentation deal with types:

=over

=item * L<Bolt Protocol documentation|https://neo4j.com/docs/bolt/current/>

=item * L<Neo4j Cypher Manual|https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/>

=item * L<Neo4j Java Driver|https://neo4j.com/docs/api/java-driver/current/>

=item * L<Neo4j Python Driver|https://neo4j.com/docs/api/python-driver/current/>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Arne Johannessen <ajnn@cpan.org>

If you contact me by email, please make sure you include the word
"Perl" in your subject header to help beat the spam filters.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2021-2023 by Arne Johannessen.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Artistic License 2.0 or (at your option) the same terms
as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
