# PODNAME: Neo4j::Types::Node
# ABSTRACT: Represents a Neo4j node / graph vertex

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Neo4j::Types::Node - Represents a Neo4j node / graph vertex

=head1 VERSION

version 2.00

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 @labels  = $node->labels;
 
 $node_id = $node->element_id;  # Neo4j 5 and newer
 $node_id = $node->id;          # Neo4j 4 and older
 
 $property1  = $node->get('property1');
 $property2  = $node->get('property2');
 %properties = %{ $node->properties };

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Describes a node from a Neo4j graph. A node may be created
by executing a Cypher statement against a Neo4j database
server. Its description contains the node's properties as
well as certain meta data, all accessible by methods that
this class provides.

L<Neo4j::Types::Node> objects are typically not in a
one-to-one relation with nodes in a Neo4j graph. If the
same Neo4j node is fetched multiple times, then multiple
distinct L<Neo4j::Types::Node> objects may be created.
Refer to the documentation of the Perl module you use to
fetch nodes from the Neo4j database for information about
how that particular module handles this aspect.

Neo4j node IDs are not designed to be persistent.
As such, if you want a public identity to use for your
nodes, attaching an explicit "id" property is a
better choice than using the Neo4j node ID or
S<element ID>.

=head1 METHODS

L<Neo4j::Types::Node> implements the following methods.

=head2 element_id

 $string = $node->element_id;

Return an ID string for this node that is unique within
a particular context, for example the current transaction.

The element ID string was introduced with Neo4j 5. When it is
unavailable, for example because this module is used with Neo4j
server S<version 4> or earlier, this method will issue a
warning in the C<Neo4j::Types> category and return the legacy
S<numeric ID> instead; see L<C<id()>|/"id">.

=head2 get

 $value = $node->get('property_key');

Retrieve the value of this node's property with the given
key. If no such key exists, return C<undef>.

=head2 id

 $number = $node->id;

Return a legacy numeric ID for this node that is
unique within a particular context, for example the
current transaction.

On Neo4j 5 and above, numeric IDs are B<deprecated.>
They may become unavailable in future.
Use L<C<element_id()>|/"element_id"> instead.

Legacy IDs are always integer numbers.
A node with the ID C<0> may exist.
Nodes and relationships do not share the same ID space.

=head2 labels

 @labels = $node->labels;

Return all labels of this node.

In scalar context, return the number of labels on this node.

 $count = scalar $node->labels;

=head2 properties

 $hashref = $node->properties;
 $value   = $node->properties->{property_key};

Return all properties of this node as a hash reference.

This hash reference should be used for read access only.
The result of attempts to change this hash is not defined
by L<Neo4j::Types>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item * L<Neo4j::Types>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::ImplementorNotes/"Node">

=item * L<Neo4j::Bolt::Node>

=item * L<Neo4j::Driver::Types>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Arne Johannessen <ajnn@cpan.org>

If you contact me by email, please make sure you include the word
"Perl" in your subject header to help beat the spam filters.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2021-2023 by Arne Johannessen.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Artistic License 2.0 or (at your option) the same terms
as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
