# PODNAME: Neo4j::Types::Point
# ABSTRACT: Represents a Neo4j spatial point value

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Neo4j::Types::Point - Represents a Neo4j spatial point value

=head1 VERSION

version 2.00

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 $neo4j_srid  = $point->srid;
 
 @coordinates = $point->coordinates;
 ($x, $y, $z) = $point->coordinates;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Represents a spatial point value in Neo4j. Includes coordinates in
two or three dimensions and an SRID that may define their semantics.

The SRID and thereby the coordinate semantics are defined by Neo4j.
See L</"srid"> for details.

The coordinate reference systems of spatial points in Neo4j are
currently severely constrained. There is no way to tag points with
the CRS they actually use, and for geographic coordinates (lat/lon),
only a single, subtly non-standard CRS is even supported.
This deviates from common OGC standards for geospatial databases.
Prudence suggests to expect future changes in Neo4j. Such changes
would likely necessitate breaking changes to this module.
For uses that don't require the spatial functions that Neo4j offers,
it might be best to eschew the point type completely and store
coordinate tuples as a simple list in the Neo4j database instead.

I<Supported in Neo4j S<version 3.4> and above.>

=head1 METHODS

L<Neo4j::Types::Point> specifies the following methods.
Additionally, a C<new()> method is currently available
as a backwards compatibility alias for C<new()> in
L<Neo4j::Types::Generic/"Point">.

=head2 coordinates

 @coordinates = $point->coordinates;
 ($x, $y, $z) = @coordinates;

Retrieve the point's coordinates as a list.

In scalar context, return the number of coordinates for this
point (C<2> for points in two-dimensional coordinate systems,
C<3> for three-dimensional systems).

 $dimensions = scalar $point->coordinates;

=head2 srid

 $neo4j_srid = $point->srid;

Retrieve an identifier for this point's spatial reference system.
This SRID has no meaning outside the context of Neo4j; in particular,
it is B<not an EPSG code.>

=begin comment

Neo4j actually does falsely claim EPSG or spatialreference.org conformance in at least one place. However:

- EPSG:4326/EPSG:4979 treat the earth as a WGS84 ellipsoid, NEO4J:4326/NEO4J:4979 use spherical development of WGS84 ellipsoidal coordinates
- EPSG:4326 uses the axis order latitude/longitude, NEO4J:4326 uses longitude/latitude
- EPSG:4979 uses the axis order latitude/longitude/height, NEO4J:4326 uses longitude/latitude/height
- SR-ORG:4326/SR-ORG:4979 are undefined, NEO4J:4326/NEO4J:4979 are not
- EPSG:7203 is undefined, NEO4J:7203 is generic Euclidian plane
- EPSG:9157 is Angola RSAO13 UTM 33, NEO4J:9157 is generic Euclidian 3D space
- SR-ORG:7203/SR-ORG:9157 define units and axis orientation, NEO4J:7203/NEO4J:9157 do not

=end comment

To date, Neo4j has defined four SRIDs: 4326, 4979, 7203, and 9157.
Every point retrieved from Neo4j is referred to a coordinate system
identified by one of them.

=over

=item Neo4j SRID 4326

Geographical ellipsoidal coordinates, referred to WGS84
(but spherically developed with C<distance()> in Cypher).
Axes: longitude (East), latitude (North). Units: decimal degrees.
Neo4j moniker: C<wgs-84>.

=item Neo4j SRID 4979

Geographical ellipsoidal coordinates, referred to WGS84
(but spherically developed with C<distance()> in Cypher).
Axes: longitude (East), latitude (North), height (Up).
Units: decimal degrees; height in metres. The height is
referred to the ellipsoid (which is not at sea level).
Neo4j moniker: C<wgs-84-3d>.

=item Neo4j SRID 7203

Coordinates in a two-dimensional Euclidian space (a plane).
The geodetic datum, axis orientation and units are all undefined,
but both axes must use the same unit.
Neo4j moniker: C<cartesian>.

=item Neo4j SRID 9157

Coordinates in a three-dimensional Euclidian space. The geodetic
datum, axis orientation and units are all undefined, but all axes
must use the same unit.
Neo4j moniker: C<cartesian-3d>.

=back

The primary semantics of a Neo4j SRID can be easily determined by
simple boolean expressions.

 $is_geographic = $neo4j_srid == 4326 or $neo4j_srid == 4979;
 $is_euclidian  = $neo4j_srid == 7203 or $neo4j_srid == 9157;
 $is_2d         = $neo4j_srid == 4326 or $neo4j_srid == 7203;
 $is_3d         = $neo4j_srid == 4979 or $neo4j_srid == 9157;

Note that Neo4j does not support geographic coordinates that are
referred to any other geodetic datum than WGS84 (such as GCJ02,
ETRS89, NAD27, or local datums), nor does it support geographic
coordinates that are referred to an unknown datum. While it is
technically possible to ignore Neo4j SRID semantics and just use
other geographic coordinate reference systems anyway, you should
be aware that this may create interoperability issues, particularly
if more than a single client uses the Neo4j database.

Neo4j does I<not> impose constraints on the datum of Euclidian
coordinates, so using (for example) cartesian coordinates referred
to WGS84 is possible. However, Neo4j does not offer a way to tag
point values with the datum they actually use. Care should be taken
not to mix different geodetic datums in the same database without
considering the interoperability issues that this may cause, again
particularly if more than a single client uses the Neo4j database.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item * L<Neo4j::Types>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::Generic/"Point">

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::ImplementorNotes/"Point">

=item * L<Neo4j::Bolt::Point>

=item * L<Neo4j::Driver::Types>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Arne Johannessen <ajnn@cpan.org>

If you contact me by email, please make sure you include the word
"Perl" in your subject header to help beat the spam filters.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2021-2023 by Arne Johannessen.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Artistic License 2.0 or (at your option) the same terms
as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
