# PODNAME: Neo4j::Types::Relationship
# ABSTRACT: Represents a Neo4j relationship / graph edge

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Neo4j::Types::Relationship - Represents a Neo4j relationship / graph edge

=head1 VERSION

version 2.00

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 $rel_type = $relationship->type;
 
 # Neo4j 5 and newer
 $rel_id        = $relationship->element_id;
 $start_node_id = $relationship->start_element_id;
 $end_node_id   = $relationship->end_element_id;
 
 # Neo4j 4 and older
 $rel_id        = $relationship->id;
 $start_node_id = $relationship->start_id;
 $end_node_id   = $relationship->end_id;
 
 $property1  = $relationship->get('property1');
 $property2  = $relationship->get('property2');
 %properties = %{ $relationship->properties };

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Describes a relationship from a Neo4j graph. A relationship may
be created by executing a Cypher statement against a Neo4j database
server. Its description contains the relationship's properties as
well as certain meta data, all accessible by methods that
this class provides.

L<Neo4j::Types::Relationship> objects are typically not in a
one-to-one relation with relationships in a Neo4j graph. If the
same Neo4j relationship is fetched multiple times, then multiple
distinct L<Neo4j::Types::Relationship> objects may be created.
Refer to the documentation of the Perl module you use to
fetch relationships from the Neo4j database for information about
how that particular module handles this aspect.

Neo4j relationship IDs are not designed to be persistent.
As such, if you want a public identity to use for your
relationships, attaching an explicit "id" property is a
better choice than using the Neo4j relationship ID or
S<element ID>.

=head1 METHODS

L<Neo4j::Types::Relationship> implements the following methods.

=head2 element_id

 $string = $relationship->element_id;

Return an ID string for this relationship that is unique within
a particular context, for example the current transaction.

The element ID string was introduced with Neo4j 5. When it is
unavailable, for example because this module is used with Neo4j
server S<version 4> or earlier, this method will issue a
warning in the C<Neo4j::Types> category and return the legacy
S<numeric ID> instead; see L<C<id()>|/"id">.

=head2 get

 $value = $relationship->get('property_key');

Retrieve the value of this relationship's property with the given
key. If no such key exists, return C<undef>.

=head2 id

 $number = $relationship->id;

Return a legacy numeric ID for this relationship that is
unique within a particular context, for example the
current transaction.

On Neo4j 5 and above, numeric IDs are B<deprecated.>
They may become unavailable in future.
Use L<C<element_id()>|/"element_id"> instead.

Legacy IDs are always integer numbers.
A relationship with the ID C<0> may exist.
Nodes and relationships do not share the same ID space.

=head2 properties

 $hashref = $relationship->properties;
 $value   = $relationship->properties->{property_key};

Return all properties of this relationship as a hash reference.

This hash reference should be used for read access only.
The result of attempts to change this hash is not defined
by L<Neo4j::Types>.

=head2 start_element_id

 $string = $relationship->start_element_id;

Return an element ID for the node where this relationship starts.
See L<Neo4j::Types::Node/"element_id">.

=head2 start_id

 $number = $relationship->start_id;

Return a numeric ID for the node where this relationship starts.
See L<Neo4j::Types::Node/"id">.

=head2 end_element_id

 $string = $relationship->end_element_id;

Return an element ID for the node where this relationship ends.
See L<Neo4j::Types::Node/"element_id">.

=head2 end_id

 $number = $relationship->end_id;

Return a numeric ID for the node where this relationship ends.
See L<Neo4j::Types::Node/"id">.

=head2 type

 $type = $relationship->type;

Return the type of this relationship.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item * L<Neo4j::Types>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::B<Node>>

=item * L<Neo4j::Types::ImplementorNotes/"Relationship">

=item * L<Neo4j::Bolt::Relationship>

=item * L<Neo4j::Driver::Types>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Arne Johannessen <ajnn@cpan.org>

If you contact me by email, please make sure you include the word
"Perl" in your subject header to help beat the spam filters.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2021-2023 by Arne Johannessen.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Artistic License 2.0 or (at your option) the same terms
as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
