=head1 NAME Device-Modbus version 0.021

This distribution aims towards implementing Modbus communications in Perl. It should make it possible to write Modbus TCP and RTU clients and servers.

Please refer to Device::Modbus::RTU and Device::Modbus::TCP for the client and server implementations.

=head2 CURRENT STATUS

Currently, the distribution is under development. You can find more information at http://www.7mavida.com/tag/Device::Modbus

=head2 MILESTONES

=over

=item * Modbus TCP server

=item * Modbus TCP client

=item * Modbus RTU client

=item * Modbus RTU server

=item * Documentation

=item * Shared over CPAN

=back

All of the above are now functional, I'd be greatful if you use this library and share any feedback. Please note that you need one of Device::Modbus::TCP or Device::Modbus::RTU.

=head2 INSTALLATION

To install this module type the following:

   perl Makefile.PL
   make
   make test
   make install

=head2 DEPENDENCIES

The only requirement for the base Device::Modbus is Try::Tiny. The RTU and TCP variants have other requirements of their own, most notably Device::SerialPort for Device::Modbus::RTU and Net::Server for Modbus TCP.

=head2 SEE ALSO

The main documentation for the distribution is in L<Device::Modbus>. Please see L<Device::Modbus::RTU> and L<Device::Modbus::TCP> for serial or TCP/IP based communications.

In Perl, you can find other Modbus related distributions. I think the
leading one would be L<Protocol::Modbus>, by Cossimo, which implements
Modbus TCP clients. While there is code for RTU clients, it is not as
mature.

There are also some scripts that implement both a server and clients.
A couple worth looking at is formed by MBclient and mbserved. The
later is available in GitHub only and they were both written by the same
author, l.lefebre L<https://github.com/sourceperl>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2015-2016 by Julio Fraire

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.2 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.
