=pod

=head1 Bytes-Random-Secure-Tiny

The minimal stuff needed from Bytes::Random::Secure, with no dependencies.

=head1 Description

This module provides a simple to use Cryptographically Secure Pseudo-Random
Number Generator (CSPRNG) built around the ISAAC algorithm. Its methods
include C<irand> for unsigned 32-bit integers, C<bytes> for simple random
bytes, and C<string_from> for characters chosen at random from a bag of
candidates. It also reliably seeds the CSPRNG from a secure source on a wide
variety of platforms.

The CPAN Module L<Bytes::Random::Secure> also produces high quality
pseudo-randomness using the ISAAC cryptographically secure pseudo-random number
generation algorithm, seeded using cryptographically secure entropy sources on
a wide variety of operating systems. It has many configuration options. And
provides both a functions and an object interface. But it has several
dependencies, and its configurability and its user-interface, while flexible
and useful, may expose more complexity than most use-cases require.

Bytes::Random::Secure::Tiny's goal is to have no dependencies outside of the
Perl core, and a simple interface that presents a minimal amount of
configuration.  We asked ourselves, what are the essentials, and how can we
achieve them in the most light-weight way?  This module is the answer we came
up with.  We believe that this module will satisfy 90% of those users who were
using Bytes::Random::Secure, but will do so with reduced complexity, a smaller
user interface, and none of the frustration that dependencies can bring.

See the documentation for L<Bytes::Random::Secure::Tiny> for more information.

=cut
