package Perinci::Access::Manual; # just to make podweaver happy

# DATE
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Perinci::Access manual

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Perinci::Access::Manual - Perinci::Access manual

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.45 of Perinci::Access::Manual (from Perl distribution Perinci-Access), released on 2017-07-10.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Perinci::Access (P::A for short) is family of L<Riap> client/server libraries.
It allows you to access code entities and its L<Rinci> metadata from Perl.

=head1 MODULE ORGANIZATION

L<Perinci::Access> is a front-end interface for all of the
L<Perinci::Access::Base>-based (regular) Riap clients. Each transport protocol
will have its own specific backend module, e.g. for accessing in-process/Perl
modules and functions you have L<Perinci::Access::Perl>, for accessing Riap over
HTTP you have L<Perinci::Access::HTTP::Client> and so on. When you pass a URL to
Perinci::Access, it will check its URL scheme and pass to the appropriate
backend.

L<Perinci::Access::Lite> is the exception from these and is not under the
Perinci::Access umbrella. It is designed to be lightweight (especially in terms
of startup overhead), has less features, and used by L<Perinci::CmdLine::Lite>.

=head1 CONCEPTS

Please read up on L<Rinci> and L<Riap> first.

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Perinci-Access>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Perinci-Access>.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Perinci-Access>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Perinci>

L<Perinci::Access::Manual::Examples>

L<Perinci::Access::Manual::FAQ>

L<App::riap>

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012 by perlancar@cpan.org.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
