=head1 NAME

TUWF::Request - Request parsing and handling for TUWF

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is responsible for parsing and handling the request data. This
module is automatically loaded by TUWF and its methods can be used without
requiring any special work.

This module can not be used outside of the TUWF framework.

=head1 METHODS

The following methods are added to the main TUWF object:

=head2 reqGets(name)

Get parameters from the query string. When I<name> is not given or undef,
returns a list of all parameter names (in no defined order). Otherwise it will
return all values of the parameter in the order that they appear in the query
string. In both cases an empty list may be returned if there are no parameters
or if the named parameter does not exist. This method should not be used in
scalar context.

Examples:

  # Let the query string be the following:
  #  "key=value&foo=bar1&foo=bar2"
  # Then:
  my @list = $self->reqGets();      # @list = ('key', 'foo')
  my @foo  = $self->reqGets('foo'); # @foo = ('bar1', 'bar2')
  my @no   = $self->reqGets('no');  # @no = ()

=head2 reqGet(name)

Get the first value of the named query string parameter. Roughly equivalent to
C<(reqGets($name))[0]>. The name argument is required. Since this method only
ever returns a scalar value, it is safe to use when constructing lists:

  my %stuff = (
    name => $self->reqGet('name'),
  );

Don't do that with C<reqGets()>, as it may leave you vulnerable to parameter
injection!

=head2 reqPosts(name)

Behaves the same as C<reqGets()>, but fetches the information from the POST
data of the request instead. Unlike many CGI libraries, C<reqPost()> will
B<not> return the file contents when the parameter comes from a file upload
input element, instead, it will return the file name.

=head2 reqPost(name)

Behaves the same as C<reqGet()>, but for POST data.

=head2 reqParams(name)

Combines C<reqGets()> and C<reqPosts()>. The behaviour is the same as both
functions, but C<reqParams()> returns data from both the query string and POST
data. POST parameters and values are always listed before the GET parameters
and values.

This function behaves similar to the C<param()> function of many CGI libraries,
with the exception that (like all other TUWF methods) C<reqParams()> returns all
data in Perls native unicode format and that for file uploads, the file name is
returned instead of its contents.

=head2 reqParam(name)

Behaves the same as C<reqGet()>, but works on both POST and GET data. If a
parameter is set in both the POST and GET data, only the value in the POST data
is returned.

=head2 reqUploadMIMEs(name)

When I<name> is not given, returns a list of all parameter names that represent
an uploaded file (in no particular order). When I<name> is given, returns the
MIME type of all uploaded files corresponding to the named parameter, in the
order that they appear in the POST data. When the named parameter does not
exist or does not represent an uploaded file, C<reqUploadMIMEs()> will return
an empty list.

It is important to note that this function B<only> works with parameters that
actually represent an uploaded file. If a parameter comes from a file upload
input element, but the user did not use it to actually upload a file (i.e. left
it empty), then C<reqUploadMIMEs()> will treat it as if the parameter did not
exist at all. The parameter will then still show up in C<reqPosts()>, but with
an empty string as "file name".

=head2 reqUploadMIME(name)

Behaves similarly to C<reqGet()>, but works with the fields from
C<reqUploadMIMEs()>.

=head2 reqUploadRaws(name)

Behaves similarly to C<reqUploadMIMEs()>, but returns the file data instead of
the MIME types.

Unlike all other methods, this method does B<NOT> return the data in Perls
native unicode format, but will return the data as a binary string. The reason
for this is that TUWF has no way of knowing in which encoding the uploaded file
is, and the file may not even represent text at all, but could be any binary
file (e.g. a JPEG image).

=head2 reqUploadRaw(name)

Behaves similarly to C<reqGet()>, but works with the fields from
C<reqUploadRaws()>.

=head2 reqSaveUpload(name, file)

Saves the contents of the first file uploaded with parameter I<name> to
I<file>. Throws an error if it was unable to open I<file> for writing.

=head2 reqCookie(name)

When I<name> is not given, returns a list of all cookies names sent with the
request, in no specific order. Otherwise, returns the value of the named
cookie, or C<undef> if the cookie does not exist.

If the L<cookie_prefix|TUWF/cookie_prefix> option is set, any cookies not
having this prefix will not be listed when I<name> is not given. The prefix is
removed from all cookie names listed, and I<name> should not have this prefix.
For example:

  # at initialization
  TUWF::set(cookie_prefix => 'ex_');
  
  # ...later, when processing a request,
  my $auth = $self->reqCookie('auth');  # actually means 'ex_auth'
  
  # when assuming the 'ex_auth' cookie to be present,
  my @cookies = $self->reqCookie();     # @cookies = ('auth')

=head2 reqMethod()

Returns the HTTP request method. Can be either C<HEAD>, C<GET> or C<POST>.

=head2 reqHeader(name)

When I<name> is not given, returns a list of all headers passed with the
request, in alphabetical order. Otherwise, returns the value of the named
header or an empty string if the header is not present.

Header names are matched case-insensitive. The returned header names may not
use the actual capitalization as used by the client. Some web servers may hide
some request headers from the script. In particular, the C<Content-Type> and
C<Content-Length> headers with POST requests may not be present, even when they
have been sent by the client.

=head2 reqPath()

Returns the path part of the current page, relative to the I<base URI>.
Includes a leading slash.

=head2 reqBaseURI()

Returns the I<base URI> of the current page. That is, C<http(s)://> plus
hostname. Does not include a trailing slash.

=head2 reqQuery()

Returns the query string part of the current page, including leading question
mark. Returns an empty string if the current page does not have a query part.

=head2 reqURI()

Returns the full URI of the current page, including C<http(s)://> and query
string.

=head2 reqHost()

Returns the hostname (or domain name) of the website. Identical to
C<reqHeader('Host')>.

=head2 reqIP()

Returns the IP address of the client. Note that this may be an IPv4 or IPv6
address, depending on the configuration of your webserver.


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<TUWF>


=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2008-2015 Yoran Heling.

This module is part of the TUWF framework and is free software available under
the liberal MIT license. See the COPYING file in the TUWF distribution for the
details.


=head1 AUTHOR

Yoran Heling <projects@yorhel.nl>

=cut
