=head1 NAME

Konstrukt::Doc - Documentation of the Konstrukt framework

=head1 DESCRIPTION

General Documentation:

=over

=item * L<Konstrukt::Doc::About> - About the Konstrukt framework and its design.

=item * L<Konstrukt::Doc::Installation> - Installation and configuration.

=item * L<Konstrukt::Doc::Basics> - General website organization and tag syntax.

=item * L<Konstrukt::Doc::Templating> - Using templating to create static web sites.

=item * L<Konstrukt::Doc::FunctionPlugins> - Using plugins to add dynamics to your web page.

=item * L<Konstrukt::Doc::ApplicationPlugins> - Use existing application plugins to integrate complex functionality into your website in an instant.

=item * L<Konstrukt::Doc::CreatingPlugins> - Create your own plugins.

=item * L<Konstrukt::Doc::CoreDevelopment> - Hacking on the Konstrukt core.

=item * L<Konstrukt::Doc::PluginList> - Complete list of the plugins that are shipped with this package.

=back

Tutorials:

=over

=item * L<Konstrukt::Doc::Tutorial::Usage::Blog> - Using the blog plugin to create a blog.

=item * L<Konstrukt::Doc::Tutorial::Plugin::Randomline> - Create a really simple plugin putting out a random line.

=item * L<Konstrukt::Doc::Tutorial::Plugin::Note::Actions> - 1) Create a simple note taking plugin performing different actions.

=item * L<Konstrukt::Doc::Tutorial::Plugin::Note::Template> - 2) Using templates for the presentation.

=item * L<Konstrukt::Doc::Tutorial::Plugin::Note::DBI> - 3) Using Perl DBI to store your data in a database.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR 

Copyright 2006 Thomas Wittek (mail at gedankenkonstrukt dot de). All rights reserved. 

This document is free software.
It is distributed under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Next: L<Konstrukt::Doc::About>

Parent: L<Konstrukt>

=cut
