=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mail::Box::Mbox::Message - one message in a Mbox folder

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Box::Mbox::Message
   is a Mail::Box::File::Message
   is a Mail::Box::Message
   is a Mail::Message
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $folder  = Mail::Box::Mbox->new(folder => $ENV{MAIL}, ...);
  my $message = $folder->message(0);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Maintain one message in an L<Mail::Box::Mbox|Mail::Box::Mbox> folder.

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in Mail::Box::File::Message|Mail::Box::File::Message/"DESCRIPTION">.

=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in Mail::Box::File::Message|Mail::Box::File::Message/"METHODS">.

=head1 DETAILS

Extends L<"DETAILS" in Mail::Box::File::Message|Mail::Box::File::Message/"DETAILS">.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Error: Cannot include forward source as $kind.

Unknown alternative for the L<forward(include)|Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">.  Valid choices are
C<NO>, C<INLINE>, C<ATTACH>, and C<ENCAPSULATE>.
Cast by C<forward()>

=item Error: No default mailer found to send message.

The message L<send()|Mail::Message/"The message"> mechanism had not enough information to automatically
find a mail transfer agent to sent this message.  Specify a mailer
explicitly using the C<via> options.
Cast by C<send()>

=item Error: Unable to read delayed body.

Cast by C<loadBody()>

=item Error: cannot coerce a $type object into a $me object.

Cast by C<coerce()>

=item Error: cannot include reply source as $kind.

Unknown alternative for the C<include> option of L<reply()|Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">.  Valid
choices are C<NO>, C<INLINE>, and C<ATTACH>.
Cast by C<reply()>

=item Error: cannot read message from a $source}.

Cast by C<read()>

=item Error: class $package does not implement method $method.

Fatal error: the specific C<$package> (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.
Cast by C<notImplemented()>

=item Error: coercion starts with some object, not '$type'.

Cast by C<coerce()>

=item Error: method bounce requires To, Cc, or Bcc.

The message L<bounce()|Mail::Message::Construct::Bounce/"Constructing a message"> method forwards a received message off to someone
else without modification; you must specified it's new destination.
If you have the urge not to specify any destination, you probably
are looking for L<reply()|Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">. When you wish to modify the content, use
L<forward()|Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">.
Cast by C<bounce()>

=item Error: method forwardAttach requires a preamble.

Cast by C<forwardAttach()>

=item Error: method forwardEncapsulate requires a preamble.

Cast by C<forwardEncapsulate()>

=item Error: method forwardNo requires a To.

Cast by C<forwardNo()>

=item Error: method forwardNo requires a body.

Cast by C<forwardNo()>

=item Error: no rebuild rule $name defined.

Cast by C<rebuild()>

=item Error: only build() Mail::Message's; they are not in a folder yet.

You may wish to construct a message to be stored in a some kind
of folder, but you need to do that in two steps.  First, create a
normal L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message>, and then add it to the folder.  During this
L<Mail::Box::addMessage()|Mail::Box/"The folder"> process, the message will get L<coerce()|Mail::Message/"Internals">-d
into the right message type, adding storage information and the like.
Cast by C<build()>

=item Error: please install Email::Simple.

Cast by C<coerce()>

=item Error: please install MIME::Entity.

Cast by C<coerce()>

=item Error: please install Mail::Internet.

Cast by C<coerce()>

=item Error: select parts via '$what'?

Cast by C<parts()>

=item Warning: skipped unknown key '$key' in build.

Cast by C<build()>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box version 4.00,
built on December 11, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

For contributors see file ChangeLog.

This software is copyright (c) 2001-2025 by Mark Overmeer.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

