package App::lcpan::Manual::Tutorial::700_SettingUpADarkPAN;

# DATE
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Setting up a DarkPAN mirror

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

App::lcpan::Manual::Tutorial::700_SettingUpADarkPAN - Setting up a DarkPAN mirror

=head1 VERSION

version 1.062.000

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A DarkPAN is a term to refer to a CPAN-like directory structure which contains
regular CPAN modules plus some of your own private modules, or perhaps purely
your own modules only. It can be available over the public Internet, but often
not at all (hence the term "dark"). The use of CPAN-like directory makes it
possible to use existing toolchain used for CPAN, including installer like
L<cpanm|App::cpanminus>.

=head1 SETTING UP YOUR DARKPAN

=head2 Adding distributions

To setup a darkpan with lcpan, you have two options. First, you can use a
regular mini CPAN mirror as a basis then add some of your own. The second is you
start with an empty repository and add modules as you go.

To use a mini CPAN mirror as a basis, you perform the usual steps (see
L<200__SettingUpAMiniCPAN|App::lcpan::Manual::Tutorial::200_SettingUpAMiniCPAN>),
then inject your distributions using:

 % lcpan inject /path/to/Your-Distribution-1.23.tar.gz

F<Your-Distribution-1.23.tar.gz> is produced by whatever distribution builder
you choose to use (e.g. L<Dist::Zilla>). The above command will make lcpan, via
L<OrePAN>, copy the file to the local CPAN mirror as well as modify
F<modules/02packages.details.txt.gz> to include the modules inside the
distribution.

B<However, the next 'lcpan update' will again remove your distribution from the
index as lcpan will synchronize to the remote CPAN index>. Either you never
update the CPAN mirror, or you re-inject your distributions after every 'lcpan
update'; both of which are not convenient. The future lcpan version will add a
pinning mechanism to retain your injected distribution and when that version is
released this page will be updated accordingly.

To start from an empty repository, you can use L<OrePAN>:

 % mkdir -p /path/to/your/darkpan
 % orepan.pl --destination=/path/to/your/darkpan --pause=YOURID /path/to/Your-Distribution-1.23.tar.gz

C<YOURID> is an arbitrary PAUSE-ID-like ID you can choose.

After that, to index this repository using lcpan, you can add these lines to
your lcpan configuration:

 [profile=darkpan]
 cpan=/path/to/your/darkpan
 use_bootstrap=0

 % lcpan --config-profile=darkpan update --verbose

The C<use_bootstrap=0> setting will prevent lcpan from using a mini CPAN index
bootstrap. You can add a shell alias to make the above command more convenient
e.g.:

 alias lcpan-darkpan="lcpan --config-profile=darkpan"

=head1 USING YOUR DARKPAN

=head2 Installing modules

To install modules from your DarkPAN, you can use:

 % cpanm --mirror file:/path/to/your/darkpan -n MODULE::NAME

This will make cpanm fallback to a regular remote CPAN mirror when a module or a
dependency does not exist on the DarkPAN. To add more mirrors, you simply
specify more:

 % cpanm --mirror file:/path/to/your/darkpan --mirror file:/path/to/cpan -n MODULE::NAME

=head2 Querying information

Using the previously created alias:

 % lcpan-darkpan mods -l ;# list all modules in your DarkPAN
 # and so on

If you want to query over HTTP, there's L<App::lcpan::Daemon> which is a L<PSGI>
application you can run with a PSGI-compliant webserver.

If you want a nice web interface like L<MetaCPAN|https://metacpan.org> for your
local mini CPAN mirror, currently you're out of luck. Maybe I or someone else
will get around to it. Note that you can also setup a MetaCPAN of your own, but
it's more involved.

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2021, 2020 by perlancar@cpan.org.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
