
=pod

=head1 NAME

Email::Blaster::Manual::Administration

=head1 OVERVIEW

The Email::Blaster software is intended to run for months or years on end without
requiring constant babysitting or attention.

=head2 OS Shutdown

If the OS shuts down, the Email::Blaster will handle the C<TERM> signal by calling
any/all C<server_shutdown> event handlers, and then will exit.

=head2 OS Restarts

If the OS restarts, the Email::Blaster will not automatically start up again when the
OS comes back online.

It is recommended that a service is added to the server configuration to ensure 
that the Email::Blaster is automatically started (after MySQL has come online).

=head2 User/Group

The Email::Blaster software should be run under a normal user account - admin 
permissions are B<not> required or recommended.

=head2 Ports Used

By default, no ports are used.  If Clustering mode is used, whatever port C<memcached>
is listening to on the local and server should be open (port 11211 by default).

=head2 RAM and CPU Usage

Inordinate amounts of RAM and CPU should not be used, unless the emails sent are
very large.

=head1 SUPPORT

Visit L<http://www.devstack.com/contact/> or email the author at <jdrago_999@yahoo.com>

Commercial support and installation is available.

=head1 AUTHOR

John Drago <jdrago_999@yahoo.com>
 
=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2008 by John Drago

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.10.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut

