=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Archive::CAR::CID - Lightweight Content Identifier (CID) for CAR archives

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Archive::CAR::CID;

    # CIDs are usually obtained via Archive::CAR
    my $cid = Archive::CAR::CID->decode($file_handle);

    say "Version: " . $cid->version;
    say "Codec:   " . $cid->codec;
    say "Digest:  " . unpack("H*", $cid->digest);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Archive::CAR::CID is a minimal implementation of the Content Identifier (CID) specification, specifically tailored for
use with CAR archives. It provides the necessary fields to identify data blocks without the overhead of a full
Multiformats stack.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<version()>

Returns the CID version (0 or 1).

=head2 C<codec()>

Returns the IPLD codec code (e.g., 0x71 for dag-cbor).

=head2 C<hash()>

Returns the multihash type code (e.g., 0x12 for sha2-256).

=head2 C<digest()>

Returns the raw binary digest.

=head2 C<raw()>

Returns the raw binary representation of the CID.

=head2 C<to_string()>

Returns a hexadecimal string representation of the raw CID bytes (or base32 for CIDv1).

=head2 C<decode($fh)>

Class method. Decodes a binary CID from a filehandle using standard buffered I/O.

=head2 C<from_raw($bytes)>

Class method. Creates a CID object from a raw byte string. This is useful for CIDs obtained from external sources like
firehose events.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Archive::CAR>, L<https://github.com/multiformats/cid>

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
