=head1 NAME

WWW::AUR - API for the Archlinux User Repository website.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use WWW::AUR;
  my $aur = WWW::AUR->new( basepath => '/tmp/aurtmp' );
  my $pkg = $aur->find( 'perl-www-aur' );
  
  # download_size() can check the file size without downloading...
  printf "Preparing to download source package file (%d bytes).\n",
      $pkg->download_size;
  
  $pkg->download;
  printf "Downloaded pkgfile to %s.\n", $pkg->src_pkg_path;
  
  $pkg->extract;  # calls download() if you didn't
  printf "Extracted pkgfile to %s.\n", $pkg->src_dir_path;
  
  $pkg->build;    # calls extract()  if you didn't
  printf "Built binary pkgfile and saved to %s.\n", $pkg->bin_pkg_path;
  
  my $who = $pkg->maintainer();
  printf "%s is maintained by %s.\n", $pkg->name, $who->name;
  
  print "Here is all of their maintained packages:\n";
  for my $otherpkg ( $who->packages ) {
      printf " - %s\n", $otherpkg->name;
  }
  
  my $login = $aur->login( 'myname', 'mypassword' )
      or die "Failed to login as myname, what a shock";
  
  $login->vote( 'my-favorite-package' );
  $login->disown( 'i-hate-this-package' );
  $login->upload( '../a-new-package-file.src.pkg.tar.gz',
                  'lib' );
  
  print "Iterating through ALL packages...\n";
  my $iter = $aur->packages;
  while ( my $pkgobj = $iter->next ) {
      my %info = $pkgobj->info;
      print "$info{name} -- $info{version}\n";
  }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Archlinux User Repository is a relatively simple website that
houses user-submitted packages for ArchLinux. These "source packages"
merely contain what is required to build the package, unlike Archlinux's
official repository which house binary packages.

This module provides an interface for the straight-forward AUR user
as well as for AUR author, aka package maintainers. The goal is to be
able to do anything with this module that you could with a web
browser.

The L<WWW::AUR::Package> module also allows the module user to
download and build source packages using I<makepkg>. Installation is
left up to the module user and is not implemented in this module.

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

  $OBJ = WWW::AUR->new( %PATH_PARAMS? );

=over 4

=item C<%PATH_PARAMS> I<(Optional)>

These parameters are optional. See L</PATH PARAMETERS>.

=item C<$OBJ>

A C<WWW::AUR> object.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 search

  @PACKAGES = $OBJ->search( $QUERY );

=over 4

=item C<$QUERY>

A string to match package names against. The string can have regexp
anchors (^ or $).

If C<$QUERY> contains anchors then only package names that match the
anchored text are returned. Other special regexp chars will be sent to
the query literally. Since the AUR does not directly support regexp
searches this will most likely return unexpected results.

=item C<@PACKAGES>

A list of L<WWW::AUR::Package> objects that matched the search query.

=back

=head2 find

  $PKGOBJ | undef = $OBJ->find( $NAME )

=over 4

=item C<$NAME>

The exact name of a package to find.

=item C<$PKGOBJ>

A L<WWW::AUR::Package> object if one was found.

=item C<undef>

If no package matching the given C<$NAME> was found.

=back

=head2 maintainer

  $MAINOBJ | undef = $OBJ->maintainer( $NAME );

=over 4

=item C<$NAME>

The name of the maintainer to find. Case-insensitive.

=item C<$MAINOBJ>

A L<WWW::AUR::Maintainer> object if a matching maintainer was found.

=item C<undef>

If no matching maintainer was found.

=back

=head2 iter

  $ITEROBJ = $OBJ->iter()

=over 4

=item C<$ITEROBJ>

A L<WWW::AUR::Iterator> object.

=back

=head2 login

  $LOGINOBJ | undef = $OBJ->login( $USERNAME, $PASSWORD );

=over 4

=item C<$USERNAME>

The maintainer name to login to the AUR with.

=item C<$PASSWORD>

The password to use for logging in.

=item C<$LOGINOBJ>

A L<WWW::AUR::Login> object, if the login succeeded.

=item C<undef>

If the login failed.

=back

=head1 PATH PARAMETERS

The constructor's only parameters are for paths to use in
objects. Path parameters are propogated to every L<WWW::AUR::Package>
object that is created. Package objects are created when using methods
such as L</search> and L</find>.

Path parameters are also propogated to objects that create their own
L<WWW::AUR::Package> object, in turn. For example they are propogated
to the L<WWW::AUR::Maintainer> object created by
L</maintainer>, the L<WWW::AUR::Login> object created by
L</login>, and the L<WWW::AUR::Iterator> object created by
L</packages>.

Path parameters are given as a hash with the keys as follows:

=over 4

=item B<basepath>

Specifies a base with which to set the C<dlpath>, C<extpath>, and
C<destpath> quickly. Setting the base path sets the other path
parameters to paths relative to the basepath.

After the 'basepath' is set, other path parameters can still be
overriden with their own values.

Defaults to C</tmp/WWW-AUR>.

=item B<dlpath>

A directory to store downloaded source package files.

Defaults to C<$basepath/src>.


=item B<extpath>

A directory to store source package directories. These are extracted
from the source package file.

Defaults to C<$basepath/build>.

=item B<destpath>

A directory to store built binary package files. Binary package files
are built from the source package files by using C<makepkg>.

Defaults to C<$basepath/cache>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item * L<http://github.com/jnbek/perl-www-aur>

=item * L<http://aur.archlinux.org>

=item * L<http://www.archlinux.org/pacman/makepkg.8.html>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

John D Jones III, C<< <jnbek at cpan dot org> >>

=head1 SPECIAL THANKS

Justin Davis, C<< <juster at cpan dot org> >>

Mr Davis created and maintained this awesome module for many years.
After the AUR4 migration, he became unable to devote the time needed
to maintain this module any longer and blessed me with taking over this module's
maintainership. Thanks Justin for doing all the real work on this module and
making it so all I needed to do was update a few lines of code here and there
and update a couple of tests.

=head1 BUGS

Please email me any bugs you find. I will try to fix them as quick as I can.

=head1 SUPPORT

Send me an email if you have any questions or need help.

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2014-2015 Justin Davis.

Copyright 2015-2016 John D Jones III

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.
