#                                 vim:ts=2:sw=2:et:sta:syntax=pod:nowrap

=pod

  $annotation = $self->localize_annotation($node, $annotation);
    $anno = $anno->clone; ??? needed
    $anno->renode($node);
  or
    $anno = $anno->localize(node => $node, range => $range, wstart => $ws, wend => $we); # ...
       (does $new_anno->set_is_fake(1);)

    if range or location...
    $self->localize_offset($node, $from_node, $offset);

  $anno->downgrade() and $anno->upgrade() might work?
  $anno->exile / pardon()
  exile, deport, alienate, banish, defrock, expel, uproot, spurn

Note that we don't need to do this in the book class if the annotation
can figure out how to manage itself by asking the book.  However, I
might prefer to just allow anything that isa->('Thout::Range') or
isa->('Thout::Location') to call a set_range(), set_offset(), etc.

To localize to a given node, we have to address:

  o rc=0
    all of the children form a black hole
  o r=0
    this child is a black hole

A highlight is stored (on disk and in the book) in its node's
coordinates.  To localize this, we have to look at the source node's
book coordinates and the destination node's book coordinates.

The book coordinate of the offset (Bo) is the book coordinate of its
node (Bn) plus the node coordinate of the offset (No).

  Bo = Bn + No

The destination (cache) coordinate (Dc) is the book coordinate of the
offset (Bo) minus the book coordinate of the destination node (Bd) minus
the pertinent differences (PD) -- which are made up of all black-hole
nodes (in book coordinates) which come before the Bo position.

  Dc = Bo - Bd - PD

substituting,

  Dc = (Bn + No) - Bd - PD

  # XXX holes should actually be calculated as a flat list of ranges --
  # which must account for render=1 children inside of render=0 nodes.
  my $offset = $anno->offset + $anno->node->word_range->a; # (is Bn + No)
  my $pertinent_difference = 0;
  foreach my $node (holes_before($source_node)) {
    ($node->word_range->a > $offset) and last;
    # we are in a black hole?
    ($node->word_range->b > $offset) and die("oh no");
    $pertinent_difference += $node->word_range->length;
  }

And of course all of that has to be limited at $start and $end of
the destination node.

This also means that we could have to break a highlight into two
pieces if there is a render=0 (or more likely rc=0 case) node inside
of the found/stored coordinates.

Except all we need is a pair of positions at the local cache
coordinates?  Where does this break?  Something where it is a highlight
within a child?

=head1 Reducing Scope

How about starting with creating a reduced-scope selection?

The selection finds us a cache offset (Dc), which must be transformed to
a book coordinate (Bo) and then checked against the annotation-offset
ranges of each descendant of the searched node.

Ignoring holes for a second:

  Bo = Dc + Bn

But, actually,

  Bo = add_some_holes(Dc) + Bn

And, to complicate things, we need the node of Bo (which is what we
wanted to calculate) to I<easily> get the holes before the Dc.  But, we
can localize the hole positions if we account for the earlier holes
while locating the later holes (fun stuff eh?) (note that there are no
holes in node (cache) coordinates.)

  my $node_start = $node->word_start;
  my $track = 0;
  foreach my $desc ($node->descendants) {
    # I'm assuming these are all holes
    my $length = $dest->word_end - $desc->word_start;
    my $dstart = ($dest->word_start - $node_start) - $track;
    $track += $length;
    # then cache it somewhere or just use this loop as the template
  }

=head1 TERMINOLOGY

TODO rework the above babbling...

=over

=item * Position (P)

A character index (not an offset)

=item * Global Position (GP)

is global, calculates nicely

=item * Node Position (NP)

position in a node, but without removing holes

Easily derived from global position and node start.

=item * Rendered Position (RP)

Annotations are stored with RP

In a node, holes are gone.  This is basically the position in the on-screen text.

=back

=cut

