=head1 NAME

Sys::Syscall - access system calls that Perl doesn't normally provide access to

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Sys::Syscall;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Use epoll, sendfile, from Perl.  Mostly Linux-only support now, but
more syscalls/OSes planned for future.

=head1 Exports

Nothing by default.

May export: sendfile epoll_ctl epoll_create epoll_wait EPOLLIN EPOLLOUT EPOLLERR EPOLLHUP EPOLL_CTL_ADD  EPOLL_CTL_DEL EPOLL_CTL_MOD

Export tags:  :epoll and :sendfile

=head1 Functions

=head2 epoll support

=over 4

=item $ok = epoll_defined()

Returns true if epoll might be available.  (caller must still test with epoll_create)

=item $epfd = epoll_create([ $start_size ])

Create a new epoll filedescriptor.  Returns -1 if epoll isn't available.

=item $rv = epoll_ctl($epfd, $op, $fd, $events)

See manpage for epoll_ctl

=item $count = epoll_wait($epfd, $max_events, $timeout, $arrayref)

See manpage for epoll_wait.  $arrayref is an arrayref to be modified
with the items returned.  The values put into $arrayref are arrayrefs
of [$fd, $state].

=back

=head2 sendfile support

=over 4

=item $ok = sendfile_defined()

Returns true if sendfile should work on this operating system.

=item $sent = sendfile($sock_fd, $file_fd, $max_send)

Sends up to $max_send bytes from $file_fd to $sock_fd.  Returns bytes
actually sent, or -1 on error.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This module is Copyright (c) 2005 Six Apart, Ltd.

All rights reserved.

You may distribute under the terms of either the GNU General Public
License or the Artistic License, as specified in the Perl README file.
If you need more liberal licensing terms, please contact the
maintainer.

=head1 Contributing

Want to contribute?  See:

  L<http://contributing.appspot.com/sys-syscall>

=head1 WARRANTY

This is free software. IT COMES WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND.

=head1 AUTHORS

Brad Fitzpatrick <brad@danga.com>

