=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::WSS - OASIS Web Services Security

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::WSS is extended by
   XML::Compile::WSS::BasicAuth
   XML::Compile::WSS::Signature
   XML::Compile::WSS::Timestamp

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # This modules can be used "stand-alone" ==>
 my $schema = XML::Compile::Cache->new(...);
 my $auth   = XML::Compile::WSS::BasicAuth->new
   (schema => $schema, username => $user, ...);
 my $elem   = $auth->create($doc, $data);

 # ==> or as SOAP client
 my $wss    = XML::Compile::SOAP::WSS->new;
 my $wsdl   = XML::Compile::WSDL11->new($wsdlfn);
 my $auth   = $wss->basicAuth(username => $user, ...);  # once!

 # SOAP call, compile on demand
 my $answer = $wsdl->call($operation, wsse_Security => $auth, %data);
 # same, because "all" defined is default, $auth is in 'all'
 my $answer = $wsdl->call($operation, %data);

 # or SOAP call, explicit compile
 my $call   = $wsdl->compileClient($operation);
 my $answer = $call->(%data);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Web Services Security working group of W3C develops a set of
standards which add signatures and encryption to XML.

This module implements features in the C<Security> header.  One header
may contain more than one of these features:

=over 4

=item * timestamps in L<XML::Compile::WSS::Timestamp|XML::Compile::WSS::Timestamp>

=item * username/password authentication in L<XML::Compile::WSS::BasicAuth|XML::Compile::WSS::BasicAuth>

=item * signing of the body in L<XML::Compile::WSS::Signature|XML::Compile::WSS::Signature>

=item * encryption is not yet supported.  Please hire me to get it implemented.

=back

Furthermore

=over 4

=item * you will certainly need the constants from L<XML::Compile::WSS::Util|XML::Compile::WSS::Util>.

=item * for SOAP use L<XML::Compile::SOAP::WSS|XML::Compile::SOAP::WSS> to create above features.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item XML::Compile::WSS-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option     --Default
  prepare      'ALL'
  schema       undef
  version      undef
  wss_version  <required>

=over 2

=item prepare => 'READER'|'WRITER'|'ALL'|'NONE'

=item schema => an L<XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache> object

Add the WSS extension information to the provided schema.  If not provided
at instantiation, you have to call L<loadSchemas()|XML::Compile::WSS/"Internals"> before compiling
readers and writers.

=item version => STRING

Alternative for C<wss_version>, but not always as clear.

=item wss_version => '1.1'|MODULE

[1.0] Explicitly state which version WSS needs to be produced.
You may use a version number. You may also use the MODULE
name, which is a namespace constant, provided via C<::Util>.
The only option is currently C<WSS11MODULE>.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schema>()

Returns the schema used to implement this feature.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<wssVersion>()

Returns the version number.

=back

=head2 Apply

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<check>($security)

Check whether received $security information is correct.  Each active
WSS feature must check whether it finds information for it.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<create>($doc, $security, $data)

Adds some WSS element to $security.  The $data is the structure which
is passed to some writer (for instance, the $data which the user
passes to the SOAP call).  There is quite some flexibility in that
structure, so should not be used, in general.

=back

=head2 Helpers

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<dateTime>($time|$string|HASH)

Returns a structure which can be used as timestamp, for instance in
C<Created> and C<Expires> fields.  This helper function will help you
use these timestamp fields correctly.

The WSU10 specification defines a free format timestamp.  Of course,
that is very impractical.  Typically a "design by committee" decission.
Also, the standard does not describe the ValueType field, which is often
used to cover this design mistake.

example: 

  # Both will get ValueType="$xsd/dateTime"
  Created => time()                 # will get formatted
  Created => '2012-10-14T22:26:21Z' # autodected ValueType

  # Explicit formatting
  Created => { _ => 'this Christmas'
             , ValueType => 'http://per6.org/releasedates'
             };

  # No ValueType added
  Created => '2012-11-01'

=back

=head2 Internals

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<loadSchemas>($schema, $version)

=item XML::Compile::WSS-E<gt>B<loadSchemas>($schema, $version)

$schema must extend L<XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache>.

The $schema settings will may changed a little. For one, the
C<allow_undeclared> flag will be set. Also, C<any_element> will be set to
'ATTEMPT' and C<mixed_elements> to 'STRUCTURAL'.

You can not mix multiple versions of WSS inside one $schema, because
there will be too much confusion about prefixes.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<writerHookWsuId>($type)

Creates a hook for an XML producer (writer), to understand wsu:Id on
elements of $type.

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head2 Specifications

A huge number of specifications act in this field.  Every self respecting
company has contributed its own implementation into the field.  A lot of
this is B<not supported>, but the list of constants should be complete
in L<XML::Compile::WSS::Util|XML::Compile::WSS::Util>.

=over 4

=item * XML Security Generic Hybrid Ciphers

F<http://www.w3.org/TR/2011/CR-xmlsec-generic-hybrid-20110303/>, 3 March 2011

=item * XML Signature Properties

F<http://www.w3.org/TR/2011/CR-xmldsig-properties-20110303/>, 3 March 2011

=item * XML Signature Syntax and Processing Version 1.1

F<http://www.w3.org/TR/2011/CR-xmldsig-core1-20110303/>, 3 March 2011

=item * SOAP message security

F<http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-soap-message-security-1.0.pdf>, March 2004

=item * XML Signature Syntax and Processing (Second Edition)

F<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-xmldsig-core-20080610/>, 10 June 2008

=item * RFC4050 Using the ECDSA for XML Digital Signatures

F<http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4050.txt>, april 2005

=item * RFC4051 Additional XML Security Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs)

F<http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4051.txt>, april 2005

=item * XML Encryption Syntax and Processing

F<http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/REC-xmlenc-core-20021210/>, 10 December 2002

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-WSS distribution version 1.14,
built on May 08, 2017. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile> .
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2011-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the Artistic license.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/artistic.html>

