=head1 NAME

App::financeta::gui

=head1 SYNOPSIS

App::financeta::gui is a perl module allowing the user to perform technical
analysis on financial data stored as PDLs. It is the basis of the graphics
application L<App::financeta> which can be used by users to do financial stocks
research with Technical Analysis.

=head1 VERSION

0.10

=head1 METHODS

=over

=item B<new>

Creates a new instance of C<App::financeta::gui>. Takes in various properties that
the user might want to override. Check the B<PROPERTIES> section to view the
different properties.

=item B<run>

This function starts the graphical user interface (GUI) and uses
L<POE::Loop::Prima> and L<Prima> to do all its work. This is our current choice
of the GUI framework but it need not be in the future.

=back

=head1 PROPERTIES

=over

=item B<debug>

Turn on debug printing of comments on the terminal. Set it to 1 to enable and 0
or undef to disable.

=item B<timezone>

Default is set to I<America/New_York>.

=item B<brand>

Default is set to L<App::financeta::gui>. Changing this will change the application
name. Useful if the user wants to embed C<App::financeta::gui> in another
application.

=item B<icon>

Picks up the file C<icon.gif> from distribution sharedir as the application icon
but can be given as a C<Prima::Icon> object as well.

=item B<tmpdir>

The default on Windows is C<$ENV{TMP}> or C<$ENV{TEMP}> and on Unix based
systems is C<$ENV{TMPDIR}> if it is set or C</tmp> if none are set.
The CSV files that are downloaded and temporary data is stored here.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<PDL::Finance::TA>

This module will be used to add technical analysis to the charts.

=item L<App::financeta>

This module just runs the application that calls C<App::financeta::gui>.

=item L<financeta>

The commandline script that calls C<App::financeta>.


=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2013-2014. Vikas N Kumar <vikas@cpan.org>. All Rights Reserved.

=head1 LICENSE

This is free software. You can redistribute it or modify it under the terms of
GNU General Public License version 3. Refer LICENSE file in the top level source directory for more
information.

