=pod

=head1 NAME

Data::Range::Compare::Stream::Result::Base - Result Objects Base class

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  package SomeClass;

  use base qw(Data::Range::Compare::Stream::Result::Base);
  use overload
    'bool'=>\&boolean,
      '""'=>\&to_string,
        Fallback=>1;


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This package is the Base class for all Result classes.  Result classes are defined as any objects returned by an iterator object instance while has_next is true.

=head1 OO Methods

=over 3

=item * my $obj=new Data::Range::Compare::Stream::Result::Base;

=item * my $obj=new Data::Range::Compare::Stream::Result::Base(0,1);

=item * my $obj=Data::Range::Compare::Stream::Result::Base->new;

=item * my $obj=Data::Range::Compare::Stream::Result::Base->new(0,1);

Object Constructor.  Returns blessed anonymous array containing all arguments passed to the constructor

=item * $obj->get_common

Returns the common range object.

=item * $obj->to_string

Returns a string defined by:

  join ' - ',$obj->[0],$obj->[1];

=item * print $obj;

Returns the value of $obj->to_string

=item * if($obj->boolean) { ... }

Returns True

=item * if($obj) { ... }

When called in boolean context returns the value of $obj->boolean.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

Data::Range::Compare::Stream::Cookbook

=head1 AUTHOR

Michael Shipper

=head1 Source-Forge Project

As of version 0.001 the Project has been moved to Source-Forge.net

L<Data Range Compare|https://sourceforge.net/projects/data-range-comp/>
L<https://sourceforge.net/projects/data-range-comp/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2011 Michael Shipper.  All rights reserved.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
