# ABSTRACT: Contributing to Data::Sah
# PODNAME: Data::Sah::Manual::Contributing

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Data::Sah::Manual::Contributing - Contributing to Data::Sah

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.911 of Data::Sah::Manual::Contributing (from Perl distribution Data-Sah), released on 2021-12-01.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document explains how to contribute to L<Data::Sah> developments.

To contribute, you can send a pull request on GitHub, or contact me personally.
Thanks for contributing.

=head1 IMPLEMENTING

=head2 Implementing clauses

Some clauses are not yet implemented. If you are interested in helping out
implementing these, you can first find the list of not-yet-implemented clauses
from the main L<Data::Sah> POD, or from C<t/spectest-perl.t> or
C<t/spectest-js.t>.

You should first uncomment the clause in C<t/spectest-perl.t> or
C<t/spectest-js.t> so that the to-be-implemented clause can be tested.

You should take a look at another implemented clause in
L<Data::Sah::Compiler::perl::TH::$TYPE>, L<Data::Sah::Compiler::js::TH::$TYPE>,
L<Data::Sah::Compiler::human::TH::$TYPE> for example. You'll need to implement
the clause in all of these compilers, for completeness. But it is okay if you
leave out some compilers, I and others will try to help implementing it for you.

You should also update C<Data::Sah> POD (the Status section) to let users know
that the clause has been implemented.

=head2 Implementing other aspects

For example: functions, expression, subschema, etc. Please contact me personally
to discuss things first.

=head2 CREATING TRANSLATION

Translations are put in L<Data::Sah::Lang::$LANGCODE>. Since I am Indonesian,
language C<id_ID> is the most complete. You can use the utility
C<devscripts/list-missing-translations> to list which translation strings are
missing between C<id_ID> and your target language.

=head2 WRITING TUTORIAL/DOCUMENTATION

Tutorials should be put in C<Data::Sah::Manual::Tutorial>. Cookbook-type
documentation are also welcome, they should be put in
C<Data::Sah::Manual::Cookbook> or C<Data::Sah::Manual::Cookbook::*>.

=head2 EXTENDING

L<Data::Sah> is created with extension in mind. You can create new types, add
clauses to existing types, or create a schema that can be shared for others.
Please see L<Data::Sah::Manual::Extending> for more details. The extensions can
be packaged in separate distributions, so you can release them independently of
Data::Sah.

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Data-Sah>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Data-Sah>.

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTING


To contribute, you can send patches by email/via RT, or send pull requests on
GitHub.

Most of the time, you don't need to build the distribution yourself. You can
simply modify the code, then test via:

 % prove -l

If you want to build the distribution (e.g. to try to install it locally on your
system), you can install L<Dist::Zilla>,
L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>, and sometimes one or two other
Dist::Zilla plugin and/or Pod::Weaver::Plugin. Any additional steps required
beyond that are considered a bug and can be reported to me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2021, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012 by perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Data-Sah>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
