=pod

=head1 NAME

HTML::Clean::Human - html syntax cleaner and reformatter for human beings

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This takes html like code and takes out the 'non important' stuff.
This is NOT an HTML 2 TXT converter. This is is an html syntax filter/reformatter.

My initial temptation was to simply seek a solution such as html to text. 
But then I realized html code may have links and other ephemera that would be desireable 
to keep.

What I want it to get rid of; all the stupid html things such as inline font declarations
etc.

This code is useful if you edit html, but you have to do it maybe from already existing html
that some whacko wysiwyg junk spat out.
Run it through this and voila.

So, if you have to 'remake' a stupid website somebody else made.. this is useful.
You can just point it to the url and get the code down.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use HTML::Clean::Human;

   my $c = HTML::Clean::Human->new('http://leocharre.com'); # directly from the web!
   
   my $cleaned = $c->clean;
   
   my $original = $c->html_original;

Or use the provided script htmlclean

   htmlclean http://leocharre.com > cleaned.html


=head1 PROCEDURAL SUBS

Not exported by default.
All of these take html string as argument and return filtered.

=head2 fix_whitespace()

=head2 headings2text()

=head2 rip_comments()

=head2 rip_fonts()

=head2 rip_formatting()

=head2 rip_forms()

=head2 rip_headers()

=head2 rip_javascript()

=head2 rip_lists()

=head2 rip_styles()

=head2 rip_tables()

=head2 rip_tag()

=head2 SEE ALSO

HTML::Tidy

Tidy http://tidy.sourceforge.net/

htmlclean - included command line interface



=head1 BUGS

No doubt, please contact the L<AUTHOR>.

=head1 AUTHOR
 
Leo Charre leocharre at cpan dot org
 
=head1 COPYRIGHT
 
Copyright (c) 2010 Leo Charre. All rights reserved.
 
=head1 LICENSE
 
This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself, i.e., under the terms of the "Artistic License" or the "GNU General Public License".
 
=head1 DISCLAIMER
 
This package is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
 
See the "GNU General Public License" for more details.

=cut
