=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

DNS::NIOS - Perl binding for NIOS

=head1 VERSION

version 0.004

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    # Read below for a list of options
    my $n = NIOS->new(
        username  => "username",
        password  => "password",
        wapi_addr => "10.0.0.1",
    );


    $x = $n->get(
        path => 'record:a',
        params => {
            _paging           => 1,
            _max_results      => 1,
            _return_as_object => 1
        }
    );
    say $x->content->{result}[0]->{_ref};

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Perl bindings for L<https://www.infoblox.com/company/why-infoblox/nios-platform/>

=head2 Normal usage

Normally, you will add some traits to the client, primarily L<DNS::NIOS::Traits::ApiMethods>
since it provides methods for some endpoints.

=head2 Minimal usage

Without any traits, DNS::NIOS provides access to all API endpoints using the methods described below.

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=for Pod::Coverage BUILD

=head2 new

The following attributes are required at construction time:

=over 4

=item * C<username>

Configures the username to use to authenticate the connection to the remote instance of NIOS.

=item * C<password>

Specifies the password to use to authenticate the connection to the remote instance of NIOS.

=item * C<wapi_addr>

DNS hostname or address for connecting to the remote instance of NIOS WAPI.

=back

    my $n = NIOS->new(
        username  => "username",
        password  => "password",
        wapi_addr => "10.0.0.1",
    );

Optional attributes:

=over 4

=item * C<insecure>

Enable or disable verifying SSL certificates when C<scheme> is C<https>. Default is C<false>.

=item * C<scheme>

Default is C<https>.

=item * C<timeout>

The amount of time before to wait before receiving a response. Default is C<10>.

=item * C<wapi_version>

Specifies the version of WAPI to use. Default is C<v2.7>.

=item * C<debug>

=item * C<traits>

List of traits to apply, see L<DNS::NIOS::Traits>.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=over

=item * All methods require a path parameter that can be either a resource type (eg: "record:a") or a WAPI Object reference.

=item * All methods return a L<DNS::NIOS::Response> object.

=back

=head2 create

    # Create a new A record:
    my $x = $n->create(
        path => "record:a",
        payload => {
            name     => "rhds.ext.home",
            ipv4addr => "10.0.0.1",
            extattrs => {
                "Tenant ID"       => { value => "home" },
                "CMP Type"        => { value => "OpenStack" },
                "Cloud API Owned" => { value => "True" }
            }
        }
    );

=head2 delete

    # Delete a WAPI Object Reference
    $x = $n->delete(path => $object_ref);

=head2 get

    # List all A records with:
    #   pagination
    #   limiting results to 1
    #   returning response as an object
    $x = $n->get(
        path   => 'record:a',
        params => {
            _paging           => 1,
            _max_results      => 1,
            _return_as_object => 1
        }
    );

=head2 update

    # Update a WAPI Object Reference
    $x = $n->update(
        path    => $object_ref,
        payload => {
          name => "updated_name"
        }
    );

=head1 AUTHOR

Christian Segundo <ssmn@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2021 by Christian Segundo.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The Artistic License 2.0 (GPL Compatible)


=cut

