
=head1 NAME

 t/ - worked examples for Tangram, some based on real world applications

=head1 CONTENTS

=over

=item F<t/springfield/>

Originally the only test suite for Tangram, this test suite balooned
with extra relationship types and features until it became quite
unmanagable!

=item F<t/rt/>

an example schema modeled after Request Tracker, a popular e-mail
helpdesk application.  See F<t/rt/RT.pod> for documentation.

=item F<t/musicstore/>

an example schema modeled after the test database for Class::DBI, the
schema for which is available at
L<http://www.class-dbi.com/cgi-bin/wiki/index.cgi?ERD>.  Sections from
this test suite are included in L</APP2ed>.

=item F<t/timeseries/>

This schema is for problems that relate to I<time series databases>,
such as transaction record processing, system performance logs, etc.

=item F<t/orange/>

This is a "Hello, world" type demo.  No tests yet.

=item F<t/moose/>

Tests related to interoperating between L<Moose> and Tangram.

=back

=head1 PURPOSE

This collection of schemas are for building test suites for Tangram
based on a real world applications.

The schemas here do not diverge from the original application schemas
after which they are modeled so much that the conversion from the
original application could not be completed by a SQL or simple DBI
script.  For some of the applications, such conversion scripts will be
provided.

More complex conversions and optimisations of inefficient application
schema, such as combining several L<Tangram::Scalar> C<string> fields
that do not need to be searched into a single L<Tangram::IDBIF> field,
should be performed as a seperate project.

As such, some principles will apply to building the test suites that
use these schemas:

=over

=item B<the test cases should be real>

Nothing is worse than reading a test case and there being seemingly
non-sensicle operations and C<foo>'s littered all over the place.

If the test case is not from the application, it should be a good,
logical `use case' of the application.

C<musicstore> is an exception to this, as it is a widely popularised
example.  C<springfield> will be kept around for as long as it is
needed.  Once the coverage from the other test suites is complete, it
will be marked as end-of-life and phased out.

C<orange> is a real world example, and I challenge anyone who claims
otherwise.

=item B<the test scripts should be good reading>

Well coded and presented examples will greatly assist new coders from
learning the Tao of Tangram.  Always clearly describe what each test
script is doing, consider that any of them might be a new user's first
examination of the `real' way to use Tangram.

Each set of tests should have accompanying comments that at least
outline the tests that are run.  This documentation should be
primarily inside the test suites, and should also be summarised in the
documentation for each schema.

=back

=head1 REFERENCES

=over

=item APP2ed

_Advanced Programming Perl, 2nd Edition_, Simon Cozens.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Sam Vilain, L<samv@cpan.org>

=cut

