
=pod

=head1 NAME

Apache2::ASP::Manual::GettingStarted - Getting started with Apache2::ASP

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Apache2::ASP> is a web application development framework similar to Microsoft
Classic ASP, Microsoft ASP.Net, JSP, ColdFusion or PHP.

B<NOTE:> Apache2::ASP is B<not> an exact copy of Microsoft Classic ASP or ASP.Net, and
code written for Classic ASP or ASP.Net will not function under Apache2::ASP.

Right out of the box, L<Apache2::ASP> provides a robust set of tools and 
best-practices that make it easy to build web applications.

=head1 INSTALLATION: LINUX

Installation on any UNIX/Linux system is fairly straightforward.

Just follow these steps:

=over 4

=item * Install Apache httpd 2.x

If installed from source, you get all the development libraries and tools by default.

If it is installed from an RPM, DEB or other package, make sure to install the
"development" libraries as well.  Otherwise, you will not be able to install
other modules that Apache2::ASP depends on.

=item * Install mod_perl 2.04 or higher.

Previous versions had some issues.

Just install via CPAN or from source, available at L<http://perl.apache.org/download/>.

=item * Install libapreq2

This generally goes well via CPAN, by installing L<Apache2::Request>.

If you run into problems, go to L<http://httpd.apache.org/apreq/download.cgi> and 
download C<libaprec2.x> yourself and install from source.

B<THEN> you can install L<Apache2::Request> via CPAN.  Skip the tests - 
you're probably fine.

=item * Install L<CGI::Apache2::Wrapper> via CPAN.

It's generally not necessary to run the test suite.  Feel free to skip the tests.

=item * Make sure you have libxml2.

B<Ubuntu:> C<sudo aptitude search libxml2>

B<Redhat:> C<rpm -qa | grep libxml>

B<OSX:> ???

B<Solaris:> ???

=item * Install L<Apache2::ASP>

With the main prerequisites out of the way, you are all set.

=back

=head1 INSTALLATION: WINDOWS

If you're trying to run Apache2::ASP on Windows, you'll need to get the 
following installed before you install Apache2::ASP:

=over 4

=item * Apache httpd 2.x

=item * mod_perl 2.x

You will also need the development headers, so just installing the DLL won't work.

=item * libapreq2.x

=item * sqlite

You will also need the development headers, so just installing the DLL won't work.

=back

=cut

