=head1 NAME

Net::FTPSSL::Robust - download files over FTP

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Net::FTPSSL::Robust
   is a Net::FTP::Robust

 Net::FTPSSL::Robust
   is a Exporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Net::FTPSSL;          # will publish some constants
 use Net::FTPSSL::Robust;  # more constants

 my $ftp = Net::FTPSSL::Robust->new
  ( Host     => $host
  , Security => SECURITY_TLS
  );

 # Further, see Net::FTP::Robust

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is specialized in (on the moment only) downloading large
data-sets (gigabytes) via FTP over an encrypted connection. It uses
Net::FTPSSL for the encryption and Net::FTP::Robust for the
logic.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Net::FTPSSL::Robust-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

Use to connect to one ftp-server.
All OPTIONS are passed to Net::FTPSSL method C<new()>. These options
all start with capitals.

 -Option  --Default
  Security  SECURITY_TLS
  useSSL    <false>

=over 2

=item Security => SECURITY_TLS|SECURITY_SSL

Replaces the C<useSSL> option for Net::FTPSSL.  The constants are
exported.

=item useSSL => BOOLEAN

When true SSL is used, otherwise TLS. This is the only Net::FTPSSL
option which starts with a lower-case. Usable, but deprecated: please
use 

=back

=back

=head2 Download

=head1 DETAILS

=head2 Comparison

Net::FTPSSL implements the FTP protocol over encrypted connections.
C<Net::FTPSLL::Robust> adds retries and logging, to retrieve
data which takes hours to download, sometimes over quite instable
connections.  It uses Log::Report which can connect to various logging
frameworks for its messages.

=head2 Limitations

See L<Net::FTP::Robust/Limitations>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Net-FTPSSL-Robust distribution version 0.05,
built on August 22, 2011. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  See also L<Net::FTP>.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights of the perl code and the related documentation by
2009-2011 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

