=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Business::CAMT::Message - base class for messages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $camt = Business::CAMT->new(...);

  my $msg  = $camt->read(...);
  my $msg  = $camt->create(...);

  $msg->write('file.xml');
  print $msg->toPerl;

  open my $fh, '>:raw', 'msg.json' and $fh->print($msg->toJSON);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is the base class for objects which are able to interpret
the CAMT messages.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Business::CAMT::Message-E<gt>B<fromData>(%options)

This method accepts the same %options as N<new()>.  All options
passed in are passed to that constructor.

=item Business::CAMT::Message-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

The data (probably read from a file) is wrapped into this class.  When
C<data> is undef, then C<undef> will be returned.

 -Option --Default
  camt     <required>
  data     <required>
  set      <required>
  version  <required>

=over 2

=item camt => L<Business::CAMT|Business::CAMT> object

=item data => HASH

=item set => STRING

=item version => STRING

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<camt>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<set>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<version>()

=back

=head2 Other

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<toJSON>(%options)

Returns JSON raw text (bytes, not characters) for the data.  You may
save this to a file (explicitly use encoding ":raw"), or write
it to a database.  The keys get sorted, to ensure a reproducable
result for regression tests.

 -Option  --Default
  settings  {pretty => 1, canonical => 1}

=over 2

=item settings => HASH

Pass the settings to the JSON generator object, see its manual page.
Provided settings will overrule the defaults.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<toPerl>()

Convert the HASH into Perl code, using Data::Dumper.  This is
useful, because you do not want to include the hidden object
attributes in your output.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<write>($file, %options)

All %options are passed to L<Business::CAMT::write()|Business::CAMT/"Read and Write messages">.

example: for write

   $msg->write($file);
   $camt->write($file, $msg);   # same

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Business-CAMT distribution version 0.12,
built on November 27, 2024. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2024 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

