=head1 NAME

Bot::BasicBot::Pluggable::Module::RT - Retrieves information of RT tickets

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    < you> RT#12345
    < bot> RT 12345: there is a bug in the matrix! - open

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module uses RT::Client::REST::Ticket to connect to a RT server and grab
information on tickets.

=head1 IRC USAGE

See synopsis

=head1 VARS

=over

=item server

The url of the RT server. Set it using:

  !set RT server <url>

=item login

The login to use. Set it using:

  !set RT login <login>

=item password

The password to use. Set it using:

  !set RT password <password>

=item output

The output format the bot should use to display information. Set it using:

  !set RT output <output_string>. 

the string can contain the following placeholders :

  %i : id of the ticket
  %q : queue of the ticket
  %c : creator of the ticket
  %s : subject of the ticket
  %S : status of the ticket
  %p : priotity of the ticket
  %C : time where it was created

Default is : 'RT %i: %s - %S';

=item regexp

The regexp that is used to extract the rt number from the body. Set it using:

  !set RT regexp <some_regexp>.

Its first match should be the rt number.
Default is (?:^|\s)rt\s*#?\s*(\d+)

=back

=head1 COMPLETE EXAMPLE

  #!/usr/bin/perl 
  
  use strict;
  use warnings;
  use Bot::BasicBot::Pluggable;
  
  my $bot = Bot::BasicBot::Pluggable->new(
      server => "server",
      port   => "6667",
      channels => ["#bottest"],
      nick      => "arty",
      alt_nicks => ["arty_", "_arty"],
      username  => "RT",
      name      => "RT Bot",
      charset => "utf-8", # charset the bot assumes the channel is using
  );
  
  my $rt_module=$bot->load("RT");
  $rt_module->set(user_server => 'http://rt.yourcompany.com');
  $rt_module->set(user_login => "user");
  $rt_module->set(user_password => "password");
  
  $bot->run();

=head1 AUTHOR

Damien "dams" Krotkine, C<< <dams@cpan.org> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to
C<bug-bot-basicbot-pluggable-module-rt@rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/>. I will be notified, and
then you'll automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I
make changes.

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2007-2011 Damien "dams" Krotkine, All Rights Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
