=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

  Net::OAuth2::AccessToken - OAuth2 bearer token

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $auth    = Net::OAuth2::Profile::WebServer->new(...);

  my $session = $auth->get_access_token($code, ...);
  # $session is a Net::OAuth2::AccessToken object
  if($session->error)
  {   print $session->error_description;
  }

  my $response = $session->get($request);
  my $response = $session->get($header, $content);
  print $session->to_string;  # JSON

  # probably better to set new(auto_refresh), but you may do:
  $session->refresh if $session->expired;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This object represents a received (bearer) token, and offers ways to use it
and maintain it.  A better name for this module would include B<client
or session>.

A "bearer token" is an abstract proof of your existence: different
services or potentially different physical servers are able to exchange
information about your session based on this, for instance whether
someone logged-in while showing the token.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Net::OAuth2::AccessToken-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option           --Default
  access_token       undef
  auto_refresh       <false>
  changed            <false>
  error              undef
  error_description  <value of error>
  error_uri          undef
  expires_at         undef
  expires_in         undef
  profile            <required>
  refresh_always     BOOLEAN
  refresh_token      false
  scope              undef
  token_type         undef

=over 2

=item access_token => STRING

=item auto_refresh => BOOLEAN

Refresh the token when expired.

=item changed => BOOLEAN

[0.52] The token (session) needs to be saved.

=item error => STRING

Set when an error has occured, the token is not valid.  This is not
numerical.

=item error_description => STRING

A humanly readible explanation on the error.  This defaults to the
string set with the C<error> option, which is not nice to read.

=item error_uri => URI

Where to find more details about the error.

=item expires_at => TIMESTAMP

Expire this token after TIMESTAMP (as produced by the time() function)

=item expires_in => SECONDS

Expire the token SECONDS after the initiation of this object.

=item profile => L<Net::OAuth2::Profile|Net::OAuth2::Profile> object

=item refresh_always => BOOLEAN

[0.53] Auto-refresh the token at each use.

=item refresh_token => STRING

[0.53] Token which can be used to refresh the token, after it has
expired or earlier.

=item scope => URL

=item token_type => TYPE

=back

=item Net::OAuth2::AccessToken-E<gt>B<session_thaw>($session, %options)

Pass in the output of a L<session_freeze()|Net::OAuth2::AccessToken/"Actions"> call in the past (maybe even
for an older version of this module) and get the token object revived. This
$session is a HASH.

You may pass any of the parameters for L<new()|Net::OAuth2::AccessToken/"Constructors"> as %options, to overrule
the values inside the $session.

 -Option --Default
  profile  <required>

=over 2

=item profile => L<Net::OAuth2::Profile|Net::OAuth2::Profile> object

=back

example: 

  my $auth    = Net::OAuth2::Profile::WebServer->new(...);
  my $token   = $auth->get_access_token(...);
  my $session = $token->session_freeze;
  # now save $session in database or file
  ...
  # restore session
  my $auth    = Net::OAuth2::Profile::WebServer->new(...);
  my $token   = Net::OAuth2::AccessToken->session_thaw($session
    , profile => $auth);

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<access_token>()

Returns the (base64 encoded version of the) access token.  The token
will get updated first, if it has expired and refresh_token is enabled,
or when L<new(auto_refresh)|Net::OAuth2::AccessToken/"Constructors"> is set.

It does not matter that the token is base64 encoded or not: it will
always need to be base64 encoded during transport.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<attribute>(NAME)

[0.58] Sometimes, the token gets attributes which are not standard; they
have no official accessor (yet?).  You can get them with this generic
accessor.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<changed>( [BOOLEAN] )

[0.52] The session (token) needs to be saved, because any of the crucial
parameters have been modified and C<auto_save> is not defined by
the profile.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<hd>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<profile>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<scope>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<state>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<token_type>()

=back

=head3 errors

When the token is received (hence this object created) it be the
result of an error.  It is the way the original code was designed...

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<error>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<error_description>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<error_uri>()

=back

=head3 Expiration

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<auto_refresh>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<expired>( [$after] )

Returns true when the token has an expiration set and that time has
passed.  We use this token $after this check: to avoid the token to
timeout inbetween, we take (by default 15 seconds) margin.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<expires_at>( [$timestamp] )

Returns the expiration timestamp of this token (true) or C<undef> (false)
when it is not set.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<expires_in>()

Returns the number of seconds left, before the token is expired.  That
may be negative.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<refresh_always>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<refresh_token>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<update_token>( $token, $tokentype, $expires_at, [$refresh_token] )

Change the token.

=back

=head2 Actions

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<refresh>()

Refresh the token, even if it has not expired yet.  Returned is the
new access_token value, which may be undef on failure.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<session_freeze>(%options)

This returns a SESSION (a flat HASH) containing all token parameters which
needs to be saved to be able to restore this token later.  This SESSION
can be passed to L<session_thaw()|Net::OAuth2::AccessToken/"Constructors"> to get revived.

The C<changed> flag will be cleared by this method.

Be sure that your storage is character-set aware.  For instance, you
probably want to set 'mysql_enable_utf8' when you store this in a
MySQL database.  Perl's JSON module will output utf8 by default.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<to_json>()

Freeze this object into JSON.  The JSON syntax is also used by the OAuth2
protocol, so a logical choice to provide.  However, generically, the
L<session_freeze()|Net::OAuth2::AccessToken/"Actions"> method provided.

=back

=head3 HTTP

The token can be encoded in transport protocol in different ways. Using
these method will add the token to the HTTP messages sent.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<delete>( $uri, [$header, [$content]] )

=item $obj-E<gt>B<get>( $uri, [$header, [$content]] )

=item $obj-E<gt>B<post>( $uri, [$header, [$content]] )

=item $obj-E<gt>B<put>( $uri, [$header, [$content]] )

=item $obj-E<gt>B<request>($request)

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Net-OAuth2 distribution version 0.66,
built on October 01, 2019. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights 2013-2019-2018 on the perl code and the related documentation
 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>] for SURFnet bv, The Netherlands.  For other contributors see ChangeLog.

Copyrights 2011-12 by Keith Grennan.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

