=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Net::OAuth2::Profile - OAuth2 access profiles

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Net::OAuth2::Profile is extended by
   Net::OAuth2::Profile::Password
   Net::OAuth2::Profile::WebServer

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  See Net::OAuth2::Profile::WebServer 
  and Net::OAuth2::Profile::Password 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Base class for OAuth `profiles'.  Currently implemented:

=over 4

=item * L<Net::OAuth2::Profile::WebServer|Net::OAuth2::Profile::WebServer>

=item * L<Net::OAuth2::Profile::Password|Net::OAuth2::Profile::Password>

=back

You may want to use the
L<OAuth2 documentation at Google|https://developers.google.com/accounts/docs/OAuth2WebServer>
to understand the process and the parameters.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Net::OAuth2::Profile-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

Next to the %options listed below, it is possible to provide settings
for each of the <${commands}> C<access_token>, C<protected_resource>,
C<authorize>, and C<refresh_token>.  For each command, you can set

=over 4

=item * ${command}_url => URI|STRING

The absolute uri which needs to be used to be addressed to execute the
C<$command>.  May be specified as URI object or STRING.

=item * ${command}_path => PATH

As previous, but relative to the C<site> option value.

=item * ${command}_method => 'GET'|'POST'

Which method to use for the call (by default POST).

=item * ${command}_param  => []

Additional parameters for the command.

=back

 -Option           --Default
  client_id          <required>
  client_secret      <required>
  grant_type         <required>
  hd                 undef
  scope              undef
  secrets_in_params  <true>
  site               undef
  state              undef
  token_scheme       'auth-header:Bearer'
  user_agent         <created internally>

=over 2

=item client_id => STRING

=item client_secret => STRING

=item grant_type => STRING

=item hd => STRING

Passthrough parameter that allows you to restrict one's login to a particular
Google Apps domain. The application making the call should check that the
returned value for hd matches the expected domain, as the user can change the
hd parameter in the original request.

See F<https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/OpenIDConnect#hd-param>
for more details.

=item scope => STRING

=item secrets_in_params => BOOLEAN

The client secrets are passed both via an Authentication header, as via
query parameters in the URI.  The former is required to be accepted by
rfc6749, the latter is optional.  However: many servers use the query
parameters only.

QQ Catalyst, on the other hand, does refuse requests with these parameters
in the query.  So, with this flag explicitly set to false, only the
Auth header gets included.

=item site => URI

=item state => STRING

=item token_scheme => SCHEME

See L<add_token()|Net::OAuth2::Profile/"Helpers"> for the supported SCHEMEs.  Scheme C<auth-header> is
probably the only sane default, because that works with any kind of http
requests, where the other options have limited or possible disturbing
application.

Before [0.53], the default was 'auth-header:OAuth'.

Specify the method to submit authenticated requests to the service. By
default, add the access token as a header, such as: "Authorization:
Bearer TOKEN".  Some services require that the header will be different,
i.e. "Authorization: OAuth TOKEN", for which case specify token_scheme
'auth-header:Oauth'.

To add the access token as a uri-parameter: 'uri-query:oauth_token'
(in this case, the parameter name will be oauth_token)
Merge the access token inside a form body via 'form-body:oauth_token'

=item user_agent => LWP::UserAgent object

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<bearer_token_scheme>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<grant_type>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<hd>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<id>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<scope>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<secret>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<site>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<state>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<user_agent>()

=back

=head2 Actions

=head3 HTTP

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<request>( $request, [$more] )

Send the $request (a HTTP::Request object) to the server, calling
LWP::UserAgent method C<request()>.  This method will NOT add
security token information to the message.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<request_auth>( $token, <$request | <$method, $uri, [$header, $content]>> )

Send an authorized request: the $token information gets included in the
request object.  Returns the answer (HTTP::Response).

example: 

  my $auth  = Net::OAuth2::Profile::WebServer->new(...);
  my $token = $auth->get_access_token($code, ...);

  # possible...
  my $resp  = $auth->request_auth($token, GET => $uri, $header, $content);
  my $resp  = $auth->request_auth($token, $request);

  # nicer (?)
  my $resp  = $token->get($uri, $header, $content);
  my $resp  = $token->request($request);

=back

=head2 Helpers

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<add_token>($request, $token, $scheme)

Merge information from the $token into the $request following the the
bearer token $scheme.  Supported schemes:

=over 4

=item * auth-header or auth-header:REALM

Adds an C<Authorization> header to requests.  The default REALM is C<OAuth>,
but C<Bearer> and C<OAuth2> may work as well.

=item * uri-query or uri-query:FIELD

Adds the token to the query parameter list.
The default FIELD name used is C<oauth_token>.

=item * form-body or form-body:FIELD

Adds the token to the www-form-urlencoded body of the request.
The default FIELD name used is C<oauth_token>.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<build_request>($method, $uri, $params)

Returns a HTTP::Request object.  $params is an HASH or an ARRAY-of-PAIRS
of query parameters.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<params_from_response>($response, $reason)

Decode information from the $response by the server (an HTTP::Response
object). The $reason for this answer is used in error messages.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<site_url>( <$uri|$path>, $params )

Construct a URL to address the site.  When a full $uri is passed, it appends
the $params as query parameters.  When a $path is provided, it is relative
to L<new(site)|Net::OAuth2::Profile/"Constructors">.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Net-OAuth2 distribution version 0.66,
built on October 01, 2019. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights 2013-2019-2018 on the perl code and the related documentation
 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>] for SURFnet bv, The Netherlands.  For other contributors see ChangeLog.

Copyrights 2011-12 by Keith Grennan.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

