=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Tie::DB_File::SplitHash - Divides a DB_File hash across multiple files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use Tie::DB_File::SplitHash;

   [$X =] tie %hash,  'Tie::DB_File::SplitHash', $filename, $flags, $mode, $DB_HASH, $multi_n;

   $status = $X->del($key [, $flags]) ;
   $status = $X->put($key, $value [, $flags]) ;
   $status = $X->get($key, $value [, $flags]) ;
   $status = $X->seq($key, $value, $flags) ;
   $status = $X->sync([$flags]) ;
   $status = $X->fd ;

   $hash{'this'} = 'that';
   my $entry     = $hash{'this'};

   undef $X;  # See the 'untie() Gotcha' in the DB_File documentation
   untie %hash;

$multi_n determines the 'spread out' or number of files the hash will be
split between. The larger the number, the larger the final hash can be.

The other parameters are as defined in L<DB_File>.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Transparently splits a Berkeley DB_File database into
multiple files to allow the exceeding of file system
limits on file size. From the outside, it behaves identically
with Berkeley DB L<DB_File> hash support in general with the exception
of 'seq' in object oriented mode. This has the potential
to greatly expand the amount of data that can be stored on a file
size limited file system.

It does so by taking a hash of the key to be stored, folding
the resulting hash into a value from 0 to X and storing the data
to a db file selected by the value 0 to X. The randomizing behavior
of the hash and subsequent fold down distribute the records essentially
randomly between the X+1 database files, raising the capacity of the
database to X+1 times the capacity of a single file database on
the average.

In other words: If your filesystem is limited to (for example) 2 gigabyte files,
but you need to store B<more> than that much data in a Berkeley hash,
you can use this module to efficiently do so.

NOTE: Using an 'in-memory' database is not supported by this.
Use L<DB_File> directly if you want to do that.

BTREE and RECNO databases are not supported by this module either.

The module by default exports the following constants and variables from DB_File
(see L<DB_File> for full details on what they are for):

 $DB_HASH       DB_LOCK         DB_SHMEM        DB_TXN      HASHMAGIC
 HASHVERSION    MAX_PAGE_NUMBER MAX_PAGE_OFFSET MAX_REC_NUMBER
 RET_ERROR      RET_SPECIAL     RET_SUCCESS     R_CURSOR
 R_DUP          R_FIRST         R_FIXEDLEN      R_IAFTER
 R_IBEFORE      R_LAST          R_NEXT          R_NOKEY
 R_NOOVERWRITE  R_PREV          R_RECNOSYNC     R_SETCURSOR
 R_SNAPSHOT __R_UNUSED

We also export the Fcntl O_xxxx constants.

You can suppress those exports by 'use'ing the module with an empty parameter list:

  use Tie::DB_File::SplitHash ();

For documentation on the methods and features of a DB_File hash - see the documentation
for L<DB_File>. This module is essentially a wrapper around DB_File that layers on
the additional functionality of using multiple files to store the data.

B<WARNING> - changing the 'split' factor on an existing database will result in
data loss. I<Don't do it.>

=head1 CHANGES

 1.07 2020.10.04 - Fixes for MSWin directory permissions
                   and file descriptor behavior breaking tests.

 1.06 2020.10.03 - Fixes for temp directory issue in tests (thanks goes
                   to jkeenan [...] cpan.org for identifying the problem
                   and submitting a patch for it). Updated maintainer info.
                   Updated build support. Relicensed under MIT license.

 1.05 2005.11.18 - Added version requirement for Pod::Coverage to tests

 1.04 2005.10.03 - Fixed build test failures under MSWindows.
                   Merged db creation tests with newer tests.

 1.03 2005.09.29 - Fixed build test failure caused by root being able
                   to create directories and files even in 'forbidden'
                   directories. No functional changes.

 1.02 2005.09.27 - Added Build.PL support, META.yml and Changes. Revised
                   documentation. Extended build test coverage to 100%
                   code coverage. Removed unneeded usage of 'Tie::Hash'.
                   Fixed bug in NEXTKEY causing CLEAR to throw errors.
                   Added LICENSES, GPL_License.txt and
                   Artistic_License.txt.

 1.01 2000.03.06 - Removed 'dependencies' on built-ins that caused
                   'make' failures and added install tests.

=head1 METHODS

The object methods only apply if you are using the object oriented interface instead of the
tied hash interface. There is the significant limitation that 'seq' does not
work correctly in a split database.

=over 4

=item $status = $X-E<gt>get($key, $value [, $flags]) ;

See L<DB_File>.

=item $status = $X-E<gt>put($key, $value [, $flags]);

See L<DB_File>.

=item $status = $X-E<gt>del($key [, $flags]);

See L<DB_File>.

=item $status = $X-E<gt>fd;

See L<DB_File>. Note - since multiple databases are actually open, only the
file descriptor for the '1st' underlaying database is returned.

=item $status = $X-E<gt>seq($key, $value, $flags);

'seq' B<DOES NOT WORK. DO NOT USE IT.> This DB_File method is difficult to make
work correctly in a split database.

=item $status = $X-E<gt>sync([$flags]);

See L<DB_File>.

=item $result = $X-E<gt>exists($key);

Returns true if the specified key exists in the database.

=item $result = $X-E<gt>clear;

Clears (removes all keys and values) the entire hash.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 1999-2020, Jerilyn Franz and FreeRun Technologies, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

=head1 LICENSE

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2020 Jerilyn Franz and Freerun Technologies, Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

=head1 DISCLAIMER

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Use of this software in any way or in any form, source or binary,
is not allowed in any country which prohibits disclaimers of any
implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular
purpose or any disclaimers of a similar nature.

IN NO EVENT SHALL I BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,  OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, LOST PROFITS) EVEN IF I HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE

=head1 AUTHOR

Jerilyn Franz

=head1 TODO

'seq' functionality

=head1 VERSION

1.07 - 2020.10.04

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<DB_File>

=cut
