=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Net::Domain::SMD - info from one SMD structure

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Net::Domain::SMD is extended by
   Net::Domain::SMD::File

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # end-user route to collect the info
  my $tmch  = Net::Domain::TMCH->new(%options);
  my $smdf  = $tmch->smd($filename);
  my $smdf  = $tmch->smd($node);   # XML::LibXML::Element
  my $smdf  = $tmch->smd($string); # bytes

  # Data::Dumper is your friend
  foreach my $court ($smd->courts)
  {   print $court->{courtName}, "\n";
      print Dumper $court;
  }

  foreach my $trademark ($smd->trademarks)
  {   print $trademark->{markName}, "\n";
      my $holders = $trademark->{holder} || [];
      foreach my $holder (@$holders)
      {  print "Holder: $holder->{name}\n";
      }
  }

  foreach my $treaty ($smd->treaties) ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Draft RFC L<http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-lozano-tmch-smd-03>
SMD information is packaged.  This object represents one file in wrapped
format.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Net::Domain::SMD-E<gt>B<fromNode>($node, %options)

Input is an XML::LibXML::Element, which contains a signedMark structure.
The %options are passed on to L<new()|Net::Domain::SMD/"Constructors">.

 -Option --Default
  schemas  <required>

=over 2

=item schemas => L<XML::Compile::Schema|XML::Compile::Schema>

=back

=item Net::Domain::SMD-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option --Default
  data     <required>
  payload  <required>

=over 2

=item data => HASH

=item payload => XML-NODE

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<payload>()

Returns the XML::LibXML::Element which contains the whole SMD
structure.

=back

=head2 XML content access

The following methods try to be smart, to hide complexities in the XML
structure, simplifying the main program.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<certificates>(%options)

Returns the certificates as contained in the SMD file.

 -Option--Default
  issuer  <any issuer>

=over 2

=item issuer => NAME

Limit to the certificates of the issuer.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<courts>()

Returns a list of HASHes, each representing one court.
See F<examples/mark-templ.pl>

example: 

  foreach my $court ($smd->courts)
  {   print $court->{courtName}, "\n";
      print Dumper $court;
  }

=item $obj-E<gt>B<from>()

Returns the timestamp reflecting the 'notBefore' field, as string.
When "auto_datetime" is enabled, this will return a DateTime
object.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fromTime>()

The value of L<from()|Net::Domain::SMD/"XML content access"> converted into seconds from epoch.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<issuer>()

Returns the issuer information, as a HASH.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<smdID>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<trademarks>()

Returns a list of HASHes, each representing one trademark.
See F<examples/mark-templ.pl>

example: 

  foreach my $trademark ($smd->trademarks)
  {   print $trademark->{markName}, "\n";
      my $holders = $trademark->{holder} || [];
      foreach my $holder (@$holders)
      {  print "Holder: $holder->{name}\n";
      }
  }

=item $obj-E<gt>B<treaties>()

Returns a list of HASHes, each representing one treaty or statute (one
element of type "treatyOrStatute".  See F<examples/mark-templ.pl>

=item $obj-E<gt>B<until>()

Returns the timestamp reflecting the 'notAfter' field, as string.
When "auto_datetime" is enabled, this will return a DateTime
object.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<untilTime>()

The value of L<until()|Net::Domain::SMD/"XML content access"> converted into seconds from epoc.

=back

=head2 Helpers

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<date2time>(STRING)

=item Net::Domain::SMD-E<gt>B<date2time>(STRING)

Converts a time string into a DateTime object.  Accepted time-STRINGs
are like time stamps in the SMD file headers, but also the ISO values
inside an object.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Net-Domain-TMCH distribution version 0.18,
built on December 30, 2015.  Development was supported by NIC.at, the Austrian
Domainname Registry.

 Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/net-domain-tmch/>

The documentation and interface style is consistent with a large set of
modules, belonging to the L<XML::Compile> suite.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2013-2015 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

