=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Net::Domain::TMCH - ICANN TradeMark Clearing House

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Net::Domain::TMCH
   is a Exporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $tmch  = Net::Domain::TMCH->new(%options);

  my $smd   = $tmch->smd($filename);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Draft RFC L<http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-lozano-tmch-func-08>
specifies a way for TLD (top-level domain registries) to exchange
information about trademark rights, brand registrations between
domain-name registries.

This module manages the verification process of "SMD" information,
each containing a crypto-signed XML structure of information related to
a single trademark claim.  SMD can come in separate files, inside EPP
messages, and more.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Net::Domain::TMCH-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option          --Default
  auto_datetime     <false>
  cert_revocations  <according to rfc>
  is_pilot          <false>
  smd_admin         <generated internally>
  smd_revocations   []
  tmch_certificate  <included>
  tmv_certificate   undef

=over 2

=item auto_datetime => BOOLEAN

Read dates from the XML are automatically converted into DateTime objects.

=item cert_revocations => FILENAME|URI|OBJECT

The CRL for invalidated TMV certificates.  You may also provide an
L<Net::Domain::TMCH::CRL|Net::Domain::TMCH::CRL> object.

=item is_pilot => BOOLEAN

=item smd_admin => L<Net::Domain::SMD::Schema|Net::Domain::SMD::Schema>-object

=item smd_revocations => FILENAME|URI|ARRAY

=item tmch_certificate => FILENAME

This must be a PEM file which contains the certificate on top of all
TMCH certificates.

=item tmv_certificate => CERTIFICATE

[0.18] The CERTIFICATE can be a filename or a Crypt::OpenSSL::X509 object.
When specified, you can create and sign your own SMD structures.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<certRevocations>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<isPilot>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<smdAdmin>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<smdRevocations>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<tmchCA>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<tmchCertficate>()

=back

=head2 Actions

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<createSignedMark>($document, $data, %options)

Returns an XML::LibXML::Element containing the $data (passed as HASH)
about one 'mark' structure.  This needs to get encapsulated into an XML
document.

The $document is the XML::LibXML::Document in which the produced XML
will get included.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<smd>( <$filename|$element|STRING>, %options )

The first argument can be either a $filename (in which case an
L<Net::Domain::SMD::File|Net::Domain::SMD::File> object is returned, or an XML::LibXML::Element
or a STRING (bother returning an L<Net::Domain::SMD|Net::Domain::SMD> object).  In either
case, the returned object reflects what is kept inside the XML.

C<undef> is returned when the data is invalid, for instance because it
has expired.

 -Option            --Default
  accept_expired      <false>
  trust_certificates  <false>

=over 2

=item accept_expired => BOOLEAN

When true, you will be able to access expired SMD files.  This is
especially useful in regression tests, or when you process ancient
SMD files.

=item trust_certificates => BOOLEAN

Do not check the certificates inside the SMD file for validity.

=back

example: 

   my $smd = $tmch->smd($fh)
       or die "cannot use $fn: $@";

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Net-Domain-TMCH distribution version 0.18,
built on December 30, 2015.  Development was supported by NIC.at, the Austrian
Domainname Registry.

 Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/net-domain-tmch/>

The documentation and interface style is consistent with a large set of
modules, belonging to the L<XML::Compile> suite.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2013-2015 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

