
=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Chart::Manual - Chart user documentation index

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Chart is a collection of modules for visualizing numerical data.
It is designed for: (in that order) maximal flexibility, feature richness
and minimal dependencies. It can write PNG and JPG images into files and
STDOUT (for web and shell usage).

The early API is mostly borrowed from Martien Verbruggen's L<GIFgraph> module.


=head1 TYPES

Example programs with output for each chart type: L<Chart::Manual::Types>


=head1 WORKFLOWS

Ways to use Chart, broadly described: L<Chart::Manual::Workflows>


=head1 METHODS

Descriptions of all methods geared toward the user: L<Chart::Manual::Methods>


=head1 PROPERTIES

The method C<set> allows to directly change particular chart properties.
All of these explained in detail with their acceptable and default values
are sorted there by name and topic or type:

L<Chart::Manual::Properties>


=head1 FUTURE CHANGES

Much of what is documented here will be superseded by a new API provided
by upcoming version 3.0. The old API will be discouraged but not deprecated,
except maybe the module Chart::Composite and some properties.
The new API will aply only to objects created by Chart-E<gt>new(...);

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2022 David Bonner, Herbert Breunung.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it 
under same terms as Perl itself.


=head1 AUTHOR

David Bonner, <chartgrp@web.de>

Herbert Breunung, <lichtkind@cpan.org>


=cut
