package Elastic::Manual::Attributes::Unique;

1;

# ABSTRACT: Making attributes unique

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Elastic::Manual::Attributes::Unique - Making attributes unique

=head1 VERSION

version 0.52

=head1 INTRODUCTION

The only unique constraint available in Elasticsearch is the document ID.
Typically, if you want a document to be unique, you use the unique value as
the ID.

However, sometimes you don't want to do this. For instance, you may want to
use the email address as a unique constraint for your user accounts, but
you also want to be able to link to a user account without exposing their
email address, and let the user change their email address without having
to update the ID of their user account wherever it is used.

In this case, we want the ID of the user document to be auto-generated, but
we also want the value of the C<email> attribute to be unique.

=head1 STORING UNIQUE KEYS

L<Elastic::Model> adds support for unique constraints other than the ID.
Your unique attributes are tracked in a special index which defaults to
C<"unique_key">, but which can be specified in your Model class:

    package MyApp;

    use Elastic::Model;

    has_namespace 'foo' .....;

    has_unique_index 'myapp_uniques';

The index will be created automatically.

=head1 APPLYING UNIQUE CONSTRAINTS

Any attribute whose value is a string (including numeric attributes) can
have a unique constraint applied:

    has 'email' => (
        is          => 'rw',
        isa         => 'Str',
        unique_key  => 'myapp_email'
    );

The C<unique_key> value will be used as the C<type> in the unique keys index.
For instance, if the C<email> is C<john@foo.com>, then the unique entry for
this document will be stored in C<index:myapp_uniques>,
under C<type:myapp_email> with C<id:john@foo.com>.

The C<unique_key> can only be used once in a doc class.  You can't have (eg)
the attributes C<email_1> and C<email_2> both using a C<unique_key> of
C<myapp_email>.

=head1 COMPOUND KEYS

It is easy to make a compound key a unique constraint. For instance, to combine
the attributes C<account_type> and C<account_name> you could do:

    has 'account_type' => (
        is         => 'rw',
        isa        => 'Str',
        required   => 1,
        trigger    => sub { shift->clear_account_key }
    );

    has 'account_name' => (
        is         => 'rw',
        isa        => 'Str',
        required   => 1,
        trigger    => sub { shift->clear_account_key }
    );

    has 'account_key' => (
        is         => 'ro',
        isa        => 'Str',
        init_arg   => undef,
        lazy       => 1,
        unique_key => 'account_key',
        builder    => '_build_account_key',
        clearer    => 'clear_account_key',
    );

    sub _build_account_key {
        my $self = shift;
        return $self->account_type . ':' .$self->account_name
    }

When the doc is saved after either the C<account_type> or C<account_name> is
changed, the C<account_key> will be checked for uniqueness.

=head1 HANDLING CONFLICTS

When you L<save|Elastic::Model::Role::Doc/save()> a doc, any unique keys will
be checked for uniqueness, and an error will be thrown if there is a conflict.

You can handle these error gracefully using the
L<on_unique|Elastic::Model::Role::Doc/on_unique> parameter:

    $doc->save(
        on_unique => sub {
            my ($doc,$failed) = @_;
            # do something
        }
    )

The C<$failed> hashref will contain a hashref whose keys are the name
of the L<unique_keys|Elastic::Manual::Attributes/unique_key> that have
conflicts, and whose values are the values of those keys which already exist,
and so cannot be overwritten. For instance:

    {
        account_key => 'facebook:joe_bloggs'
    }

=head1 INCOMPATIBILITIES

=head2 $doc->overwrite()

You can't L<overwrite|Elastic::Model::Role::Doc/overwrite()> a doc
with unique keys that hasn't already been loaded from Elasticsearch. For
instance, you can do:

    $user = $domain->get( user => 1 );
    $user->email('jack@foo.com');
    $user->overwrite;

But not:

    $user = $domain->new_doc( user => { id => 1, email => 'jack@foo.com' });
    $user->overwrite;

The reason for this is that, if that user already exists, then overwriting
that doc will leave any old unique keys in place.
L<Elastic::Model::Role::Doc/save()> will handle the old unique values
correctly.

=head2 $view->delete

If you use L<Elastic::Model::View/delete()> then you are responsible for
removing the related keys yourself.

=head2 Changing unique key names and reindexing

The unique keys index will not be updated if you change the C<unique_key>
name, and reindexing does not take unique keys into account at all.  It
is up to you to manage any changes.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item *

L<Elastic::Manual::Attributes>

=item *

L<Elastic::Model>

=item *

L<Elastic::Manual>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Clinton Gormley <drtech@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2015 by Clinton Gormley.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
