# -*- Perl -*-
# See copyright, etc in below POD section.
######################################################################

=pod

=head1 NAME

Parallel::Forker README file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Parallel::Forker manages parallel processes that are either subroutines or
system commands.  Forker supports most of the features in all the other
little packages out there, with the addition of being able to specify
complicated expressions to determine which processes run after others, or
run when others fail.

=head1 INSTALLATION

Skip this section if Parallel::Forker has already been installed.

=head2 Supported Systems

Parallel::Forker should run on any system with Perl.

=head2 CPAN Installation

=over 4

Easiest installation is using the "CPAN" command line that comes with Perl.
After configuring CPAN the first time, simply

   $ cpan
   cpan> install Parallel::Forker

Read the rest of this file for details on the programs provided.

=back

=head2 Manual Installation

=over 4

Download the latest version from L<http://www.perl.org/CPAN/>.

C<cd> to the directory containing this README notice.

Type C<perl Makefile.PL> to configure for your system.

Type C<make> to compile.

Type C<make test> to check the package.

Type C<make install> to install the programs and any data files and
documentation.

=back

=head1 USAGE

See the L<Parallel::Forker> manpage after installation.

=head1 DISTRIBUTION

The latest version is available from CPAN.

Copyright 2002-2019 by Wilson Snyder.  This package is free software; you
can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of either the GNU
Lesser General Public License Version 3 or the Perl Artistic License Version 2.0.

This code is provided with no warranty of any kind, and is used entirely at
your own risk.

=head1 AUTHORS

Wilson Snyder <wsnyder@wsnyder.org>

=cut
