\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename readme.info
@settitle Perl Parallel::Forker Installation
@c %**end of header

@c DESCRIPTION: TexInfo: DOCUMENT source run through texinfo to produce README file
@c Use 'make README' to produce the output file
@c Before release, run C-u C-c C-u C-a (texinfo-all-menus-update)

@node Top, Copyright, (dir), (dir)
@chapter Parallel::Forker

This is the Parallel::Forker Package.

@menu
* Copyright::
* Summary::
* Description::
* Obtaining Distribution::
* Supported Systems::
* Installation::
@end menu

@node Copyright, Summary, Top, Top
@section Copyright

This package is Copyright 2002-2017 by Wilson Snyder @email{wsnyder@@wsnyder.org}.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of either the GNU Lesser General Public License
Version 3 or the Perl Artistic License Version 2.0.

This code is provided with no warranty of any kind, and is used entirely at
your own risk.

@node Summary, Description, Copyright, Top
@section Summary

Parallel::Forker manages parallel processes that are either subroutines or
system commands.  Forker supports most of the features in all the other
little packages out there, with the addition of being able to specify
complicated expressions to determine which processes run after others, or
run when others fail.

@node Description, Obtaining Distribution, Summary, Top
@section Description

See the Parallel::Forker manpage for a detailed description of this package.

@node Obtaining Distribution, Supported Systems, Description, Top
@section Obtaining Distribution

The latest version is available at @uref{http://www.perl.org/CPAN/},
and from @uref{http://www.veripool.org/}.

@node Supported Systems, Installation, Obtaining Distribution, Top
@section Supported Systems

This version of Parallel::Forker has been built and tested on:

@itemize @bullet
@item i386-linux
@end itemize

It should run on any system with Perl.  It may be easily modified to
support other compilers.

@node Installation,  , Supported Systems, Top
@section Installation

@enumerate
@item
@code{cd} to the directory containing this README notice.

@item
Type @samp{perl Makefile.PL} to configure the package for your system.

@item
Type @samp{make} to compile.

@item
Type @samp{make test} to check the compilation.

@item
Type @samp{make install} to install the programs and any data files and
documentation.

@item
See the @samp{man Parallel::Forker} manpage for usage information.

@end enumerate


