=head1 NAME

CSS::LESS - Compile LESS stylesheet files (.less) using lessc

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use CSS::LESS;
  # Compile a single LESS stylesheet
  my $less = CSS::LESS->new();
  my $css = $less->compile('a:link { color: lighten('#000000', 10%); }');
  print $css."\n";

  # Compile a LESS stylesheets with using @include syntax of LESS.
  $less = CSS::LESS->new( include_paths => ['/foo/include/'] );
  $css = $less->compile('@import (less) 'bar.less'; div { width: 100px; }');
  print $css."\n";

This module has released as an alpha version.

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

=head2 lessc

It must installed, because this module is wrapper of "lessc".

You can install "lessc" using "npm" (Node.js Package Manager).

  $ npm install -g less
  $ lessc -v
  lessc x.x.x (LESS Compiler) [JavaScript]

=head1 INSTALLATION (from GitHub)

  $ git clone git://github.com/mugifly/p5-CSS-LESS.git
  $ cpanm ./p5-CSS-LESS

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new ( [%params] )

Create an instance of CSS::LESS.

=head3 %params : 

=over 4

=item C<include_paths>

Path of include .less files. 

This paths will be used for the @include syntax of .less stylesheet.

Use case of example:

  # File-A of LESS stylesheet
  # This file will be set as content when calling a 'compile' method.
  @include (less) 'foo.less';
  ~~~~

  # File-B of LESS stylesheet
  # This file was already saved to: /var/www/include/foo.less
  div {
    width: (100+200)px;
  }
  ~~~~

  # Example of script
  my less = CSS::LESS->new( include_paths => [ '/var/www/include/' ] )
  my $css = $less->compile( File-A ); # Let compile the File-A.
  print $css."\n"; # It includes the File-B, and will be compiled.

=item C<compress>

Compress a compiled style-sheet. It means removing some whitespaces using lessc. (default: 0)

Avaiable value: 1 or 0. This item is same as parameter of lessc. 

=item C<strict_imports>

Force evaluation of imports. (default: 0)

Avaiable value: 1 or 0. This item is same as parameter of lessc.

=item C<relative_urls>

Re-write relative urls to the base LESS stylesheet. (default: undef)

Avaiable value: 1 or 0. This item is same as parameter of lessc.

=item C<rootpath>

Set rootpath for url rewriting in relative imports and urls. (default: undef)

This item is same as parameter of lessc.

=item C<line_numbers>

Outputs filename and line numbers. (default: undef)

Avalable value: 'comments', 'mediaquery', 'both', undef.

This item is same as parameter of lessc.

=item C<lessc_path>

Path of LESS compiler (default: 'lessc' on the PATH.)

=item C<dry_run>

Dry-run mode for debug. (default: 0)

=item C<dont_die>

When an errors accrued, don't die. (default: 0)

=item C<tmp_path>

Path of save for temporally files. (default: '/tmp/'' or other temporally directory.)

=back

=head2 compile ( $content [, %params] )

Parse a LESS (.less) stylesheet, and compile to CSS (.css) stylesheet.

In addition, If you would prefer to compile from a file, firstly, 
please read a file with using the "File::Slurp" module or open method as simply.
Then, parse it with this 'compile' method.

=head3 $content

Content of LESS (.less) stylesheet.

=head3 %params

This item is optional. You can use parameters same as %params of new(...) method.

=head2 is_lessc_installed ( )

Check for lessc has installed.

=head2 last_error ()

Get a message of last error. (This method is useful only if 'dont_die' parameter is set when initialized an instance.)

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<https://github.com/mugifly/p5-CSS-LESS> - Develop on GitHub. Your feedback is highly appreciated.

L<CSS::LESSp> - LESS-parser by native perl implementation.

L<CSS::Sass>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2013, Masanori Ohgita (http://ohgita.info/).

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.
