=pod

=head1 NAME

PDK::Concern::H3c::Netdisco - Explore and manage LLDP topology for H3C devices

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use PDK::Concern::H3c::Netdisco;

  my $h3c_device = PDK::Device::H3c->new(...);
  my $netdisco = PDK::Concern::H3c::Netdisco->new(device => $h3c_device);
  my $result = $netdisco->explore_topology();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

PDK::Concern::H3c::Netdisco provides functionality to explore LLDP (Link Layer Discovery Protocol) topology
for H3C devices and generate interface descriptions based on the discovered neighbors. This module
is designed to work with H3C network devices and automate the process of updating interface
descriptions based on LLDP information.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new(device => $h3c_device)

Creates a new instance of the PDK::Concern::H3c::Netdisco class.

=over 4

=item * device

A required parameter. Must be an instance of PDK::Device::H3c.

=back

  my $netdisco = PDK::Concern::H3c::Netdisco->new(device => $h3c_device);

=head2 explore_topology()

Explores the LLDP topology of the device and generates interface descriptions.

Returns a hashref with the result of executing the generated commands.

  my $result = $netdisco->explore_topology();
  if ($result->{success}) {
    print "Topology exploration and interface description update successful.\n";
  } else {
    print "Failed: " . $result->{reason} . "\n";
  }

=head2 gen_iface_desc($topology_data)

Generates interface description commands based on the provided topology data.

=over 4

=item * $topology_data

An arrayref containing the raw LLDP neighbor information.

=back

Returns an array of configuration commands.

  my @topology_data = $device->get_lldp_data();
  my @commands = $netdisco->gen_iface_desc(\@topology_data);

=head2 refine_if($name)

Refines the interface name by standardizing various interface name formats.

=over 4

=item * $name

The original interface name to be refined.

=back

Returns the refined interface name.

  my $refined_name = $netdisco->refine_if('GigabitEthernet1/0/1');
  # Returns: 'GE1/0/1'

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

This module requires the following modules:

=over 4

=item * Moose

=item * PDK::Device::H3c (not on CPAN, presumably part of your internal PDK framework)

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENT

PDK::Concern::H3c::Netdisco requires no configuration files or environment variables.

=head1 INCOMPATIBILITIES

None known.

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

There are no known bugs in this module. Please report problems to the maintainer.
Patches are welcome.

=head1 AUTHOR

WENWU YAN <968828@gmail.com>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2024 WENWU YAN

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

=cut