=head1 PTP - An expressive Pipelining Text Processor

=head2 INSTALLATION

=head3 Requirements

Building and installing this program only requires Perl modules from the
standard library. So as long as you have Perl installed (which should be the
case by default on almost all system), you should be able to install ptp using
one of the method below. This program requires Perl version 5.22 or above. You
can check which Perl you have installed with the following command:

    perl -v

=head3 Installing from the Git sources

To install the program manually from Git, you can run the following commands (you do need to have the B<make> and B<git> program installed):

    git clone https://github.com/mkende/ptp.git
    cd ptp
    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    sudo make install

=head3 Installing from CPAN

This module is available on CPAN (the Perl package manager). The CPAN command
should be installed on any system that has Perl (which, again, should mostly be
any system at all). So, to install B<ptp> automatically using CPAN, you can just
run the following command:

    cpan App::PTP

Note: if this is the first time that you run the B<cpan> command, you will be
asked to configure it. The default answer to most questions is usually fine.

=head2 DOCUMENTATION

You can find the documentation for the program itself on L<meta::cpan|ptp>.
After the progarm is installed, you can also get its documentation by running
any of the following commands: B<man ptp>, B<ptp --help> or B<perldoc ptp>.

The built-in B<--help> rendering will be better if the B<perldoc> program is
installed. It usually comes in a B<perl-doc> package on most systems.

=head2 DISTRIBUTION

The main development of this software is done on
L<GitHub|https://github.com/mkende/ptp>. However, it is also available on CPAN.

The following can be used only by the module maintainer on CPAN. To update the
CPAN module, remember to increment the version number and then run the following
commands:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make distcheck
    # Optionally, to add files not in the manifest:
    # make manifest
    make dist

Finally, upload the F<App-PTP-I<version>.tar.gz> file that has been created
through L<PAUSE|https://pause.perl.org>, ideally putting it under an F<App-PTP>
directory.
