=encoding utf8

A tiny workflow manager and logger for Perl, like SnakeMake or NextFlow, but in pure Perl and aimed at making long, error-prone shell pipelines easy to B<debug> and B<reproduce>.

Every step is a single C<task()> call. SimpleFlow checks the inputs before a
command runs and the outputs after, times the command, captures its C<stdout>,
C<stderr>, exit code and signal, optionally logs a full structured record, and
skips work that has already been done.

Two subroutines are exported by default: L</"task"> and L</"say2">.

=head1 Install

With a CPAN client:

 cpanm SimpleFlow

Or from a checkout:

 perl Makefile.PL
 make
 make test
 make install

=head1 Synopsis

The simplest useful case: run a command and confirm it produced its output:

 use SimpleFlow qw(task say2);
 
 my $t = task({
     cmd            => 'which ls',
     'output.files' => '/tmp/AFK3mnEK8L.log',
 });

C<task> returns a hash reference describing exactly what happened:

 {
     cmd            "which ls",
     die            1,
     dir            "/home/con/Scripts/SimpleFlow",
     done           "now",
     dry.run        0,
     duration       0.00191903114318848,
     exit           0,
     note           "",
     output.files   [
         [0] "/tmp/AFK3mnEK8L.log"
     ],
     overwrite      1,
     signal         0,
     source.file    "t/01.t",
     source.line    29,
     stderr         "",
     stdout         "/usr/bin/ls",
     will.do        "done"
 }

 > B<Portability note.> SimpleFlow runs whatever shell command you give it via
 > C<system()>, so the I<commands themselves> are your responsibility to keep
 > cross-platform (e.g. C<which ls> is Unix-only). SimpleFlow's own behaviour
 > exit/signal decoding and coloured output is cross-platform; see the
 > L<change log|/"Change log">.

=head1 C<task>

 my $result = task(\%args);

Runs one shell command with checking, timing, capture and logging. Takes a
B<single hash reference>; the only required key is C<cmd>.

=head2 Arguments



=begin html

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Key</th>
  <th>Type</th>
  <th>Default</th>
  <th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><code>cmd</code></td>
  <td>scalar</td>
  <td><code>undef</code></td>
  <td><b>Required.</b> The shell command to run.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>die</code></td>
  <td>bool (<code>0</code>/<code>1</code>)</td>
  <td><code>1</code></td>
  <td>Die if the command fails (non-zero exit) or an output file is missing. Set to <code>0</code> to warn and continue instead.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>dry.run</code></td>
  <td>bool</td>
  <td><code>0</code></td>
  <td>Print the command (and log it) but do not execute it.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>input.files</code></td>
  <td>scalar or array</td>
  <td><code>undef</code></td>
  <td>File(s) that must exist and be readable <b>before</b> running; otherwise <code>task</code> dies.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>output.files</code></td>
  <td>scalar or array</td>
  <td><code>undef</code></td>
  <td>File(s) expected to exist <b>after</b> running; used both for the missing-output check and for skip detection.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>log.fh</code></td>
  <td>open filehandle</td>
  <td><code>undef</code></td>
  <td>If given, the full result record is also written here. Must be a real, open filehandle.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>note</code></td>
  <td>scalar</td>
  <td><code>''</code></td>
  <td>Free-text note copied into the result and the log.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>overwrite</code></td>
  <td>bool</td>
  <td><code>0</code></td>
  <td>If false and all <code>output.files</code> already exist, the command is skipped. Set true to always run.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

=end html



Passing an unrecognised key, an empty filename, or a non-filehandle C<log.fh>
causes C<task> to die: these are usually mistakes worth catching early.

=head2 Return value

C<task> always returns a hash reference. The fields below are present after a
normal run; the L<skip|/"Skipping completed work"> and L<dry-run|/"Dry runs"> paths
omit the execution-only fields (C<exit>, C<signal>, C<stdout>, C<stderr>).



=begin html

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Field</th>
  <th>Meaning</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><code>cmd</code></td>
  <td>The command that was run.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>dir</code></td>
  <td>Working directory at execution time.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>done</code></td>
  <td><code>"now"</code> (just ran), <code>"before"</code> (skipped, outputs already existed), or <code>"not yet"</code> (dry run).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>will.do</code></td>
  <td><code>"done"</code>, <code>"no"</code> (skipped), <code>"no: dry run"</code>, or <code>"FAILED"</code>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>duration</code></td>
  <td>Wall-clock seconds the command took (<code>0</code> for skips/dry runs).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>exit</code></td>
  <td>Exit code of the command (<code>-1</code> if it could not be launched).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>signal</code></td>
  <td>Signal number if the command process was killed by a signal, else <code>0</code>. Always <code>0</code> on Windows (no POSIX signals).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>stdout</code>, <code>stderr</code></td>
  <td>Captured output, with trailing whitespace stripped.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>die</code>, <code>dry.run</code>, <code>overwrite</code>, <code>note</code></td>
  <td>The (defaulted) argument values used.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>output.files</code></td>
  <td>Array ref of the output files (a scalar argument is normalised to a one-element array).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>output.file.size</code></td>
  <td>Hash of <code>filename => size in bytes</code> for the outputs.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>input.files</code></td>
  <td>The input argument, as given (present only if you passed <code>input.files</code>).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>input.file.size</code></td>
  <td>Hash of <code>filename => size in bytes</code> for the inputs (present only if you passed <code>input.files</code>).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>source.file</code>, <code>source.line</code></td>
  <td>Where in <i>your</i> code the <code>task</code> was called: handy when debugging a long pipeline.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

=end html



=head2 Skipping completed work

If C<overwrite> is false (the default) and every file in C<output.files> already
exists, C<task> does B<not> re-run the command. This makes pipelines
restartable: re-running the script picks up where it left off.

 open my $log, '>', 'logfile.txt';
 my $t = task({
     cmd            => 'gmx grompp -f em.mdp -c box.gro -p topol.top -o em.tpr',
     'input.files'  => ['em.mdp', 'box.gro', 'topol.top'],
     'output.files' => 'em.tpr',
     'log.fh'       => $log,
 });
 close $log;

On the first run C<done> is C<"now">; on a re-run (with C<em.tpr> present) C<done>
is C<"before"> and C<will.do> is C<"no">. Pass C<< overwrite =E<gt> 1 >> to force it.

=head2 Dry runs

Useful for inspecting a pipeline without executing anything expensive:

 my $t = task({
     cmd       => 'a long-running, time-consuming command',
     'dry.run' => 1,
     'log.fh'  => $fh,
 });

The command is printed (and logged) but not run; C<will.do> is C<"no: dry run">.

=head2 Failure behaviour

By default (C<< die =E<gt> 1 >>) C<task> dies if the command exits non-zero or if any
declared C<output.files> are missing afterwards, so a broken step stops the
pipeline immediately. With C<< die =E<gt> 0 >>, C<task> instead warns and returns its
result hash (with C<< will.do =E<gt> "FAILED" >>), letting you decide what to do.

=head2 C<say2>

 say2($message, $filehandle);

"Say to two places": prints C<$message> to standard output B<and> to the given
log filehandle, prefixed with the calling file and line number so log entries
are traceable. The filehandle must be open, or C<say2> dies.

 open my $log, '>', 'run.log';
 say2('starting equilibration', $log);   # -> STDOUT and run.log
 close $log;

=head1 Dependencies

Core/runtime modules used by SimpleFlow:

=over

=item * L<Capture::Tiny> captures C<stdout>/C<stderr>

=item * L<Data::Printer> (C<DDP>) pretty result/record printing

=item * L<Devel::Confess> better backtraces on death

=item * L<Term::ANSIColor> coloured terminal output

=item * C<List::Util>, C<Scalar::Util>, C<Time::HiRes>, C<Cwd> core utilities

=back

The test suite additionally uses C<Test::More> and
L<Test::Exception>.

=head1 Change log

=head2 0.14 (2026-06-29) (Claude Opus 4.8 helped)

=head3 C<task>

=over

=item * B<New:> accepts a flat key/value list as well as a hash ref —
C<< task(cmd =E<gt> ...) >> and C<< task({ cmd =E<gt> ... }) >> are now equivalent. A lone
non-hashref scalar or any odd-length argument list is fatal.

=item * B<Bug fix:> the default C<< die =E<gt> 1 >> was ignored when checking for missing
C<output.files>. The block tested the raw C<< $args-E<gt>{'die'} >> (undef when the
caller omitted it) instead of the resolved C<$r{'die'}>, so a command that
failed to produce its declared outputs only warned instead of dying. Now
consistent with the exit-code check.

=item * B<Bug fix:> removed a stray C<)> (and an extraneous leading space) from the
"command is" line written to the log file; it now matches the on-screen form.

=item * B<Bug fix:> C<length $_ == 0> could throw a fatal uninitialized-value warning
(under C<< warnings FATAL =E<gt> 'all' >>) on an undef element of the C<input.files>
array branch and the C<output.files> empty-name check. Both now guard with
C<(defined $_) && (length $_ == 0)>, matching the C<input.files> scalar branch.

=back

=head2 0.13 (2026-06-11)

=head3 Fixed (Claude Opus 4.8 helped)

=over

=item * B<Exit status and signal are now decoded correctly.> C<task()> previously
computed the exit code (C<< $status E<gt>E<gt> 8 >>) and I<then> derived the signal as
C<$exit & 127>. Because the signal lives in the low byte of the raw wait
status, which C<< E<gt>E<gt> 8 >> discards the C<signal> field was always wrong: a clean
C<exit 42> was reported as C<signal 42>, and a process actually killed by a
signal reported C<signal 0>. The signal is now read from the raw status before
shifting, so C<exit> and C<signal> are independent and accurate.

=item * B<< No longer dies on a missing output file when C<< die =E<gt> 0 >>. >> The zero-size
check did C<(-s $file) == 0>, which is C<undef == 0> when a declared output file
is absent. Under C<< use warnings FATAL =E<gt> 'all' >> that "uninitialized value"
warning was fatal, so a task that was meant to I<warn> about missing output
(with C<< die =E<gt> 0 >>) crashed instead. Missing sizes are now treated as C<0>, so
the task warns and returns its result hash as intended.

=item * B<< The "already done" result is now logged with its C<duration>. >> In the
short-circuit path (output files already exist), C<duration> was set I<after>
the record was written to the log, so the logged hash was missing it; the
duplicate C<< done =E<gt> 'before' >> assignment was also removed.

=back

=head3 Changed / Windows support

=over

=item * B<Portable exit-status handling.> Decoding now branches on C<$^O>: Windows has
no POSIX signals (C<signal> is reported as C<0> there), and a C<system()> that
fails to launch the command (C<-1>) yields C<< exit =E<gt> -1 >> instead of a garbage
value from shifting C<-1>.

=item * B<ANSI colour is disabled on the legacy Windows console.> C<Term::ANSIColor>
output is suppressed on C<MSWin32> unless an ANSI-capable terminal is detected
(Windows Terminal, ConEmu, or ANSICON), so C<cmd.exe> no longer prints raw
escape sequences and redirected logs stay clean. Unix and modern Windows
terminals are unaffected.

=back

=head3 Tests

=over

=item * Rewrote C<t/01.t> to be cross-platform: shell commands now invoke the running
Perl interpreter (C<"$^X" -e ...>) instead of Unix-only tools (C<which>, C<ls>,
C<ln>, C<cp>), and temp files use the system temp directory instead of a
hard-coded C</tmp>.

=item * Added regression tests for both fixed bugs (exit/signal decoding; surviving a
missing output file with C<< die =E<gt> 0 >>).

=item * Added coverage for the C<note> field, the C<input.file.size> / C<output.file.size>
hashes, scalar-vs-array normalisation of C<input.files> / C<output.files>, the
C<dir> / C<source.file> / C<source.line> metadata, captured C<stdout> / C<stderr>
(including trailing-whitespace stripping), and argument validation (missing
C<cmd>, unknown keys, bad C<log.fh>, missing input files).

=back

=head2 0.12

exit code now matches what shell would show it as; signal now appears

=head2 0.11

max string length now corresponds to max of output strings, no more truncated output
added List::Util dependency for string length maxes
memory size now shows when output
directory is now output during dry runs
