#=============================================================================
#
#       Module:  Term::CLI::Intro
#
#       Author:  Steven Bakker (SBAKKER), <Steven.Bakker@ams-ix.net>
#      Created:  22/Feb/18
#
#   Copyright (c) 2018 Steven Bakker
#
#   This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
#   it under the same terms as Perl itself. See "perldoc perlartistic."
#
#   This software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
#   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
#   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
#
#=============================================================================

=head1 NAME

Term::CLI::Intro - introduction to Term::CLI class/module structure

=head1 VERSION

version 0.051007

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This manual entry provides information on the class and module
structure of the L<Term::CLI>(3p) library.

For an introduction in the usage of this library, including code
examples, see L<Term::CLI::Tutorial>(3p).

=head1 MODULE SUMMARY

=head2 Language Modules

=over 36

=item L<Term::CLI::L10N>

Localizations for L<Term::CLI> diagnostics. Defines and exports a
L<loc|Term::CLI::L10N/loc> function. Based on L<Locale::Maketext>(3p).

=item L<Term::CLI::L10N::en>

=item L<Term::CLI::L10N::nl>

English and Dutch language localizations, resp.

=back

=head2 Classes

=over 36

=item L<Term::CLI::ReadLine>

Wrapper around L<Term::ReadLine> to provide a single, global
L<Term::ReadLine>(3p) instance.

=item L<Term::CLI>

CLI reader and parser class.

=item L<Term::CLI::Base>

Base class for L<Term::CLI>(3p) objects.

=item L<Term::CLI::Element>

Base class for CLI syntax elements.

=item L<Term::CLI::Command>

CLI syntax element for (sub-)commands.

=item L<Term::CLI::Command::Help>

CLI syntax element for the C<help> command.

=item L<Term::CLI::Argument>

Base CLI syntax element or command line arguments.

=item L<Term::CLI::Argument::Enum>

CLI syntax element for arguments from a fixed set of strings.

=item L<Term::CLI::Argument::Filename>

CLI syntax element for file/directory name arguments.

=item L<Term::CLI::Argument::Number>

Base class for numeric arguments.

=item L<Term::CLI::Argument::Number::Float>

CLI syntax element for floating point number arguments.

=item L<Term::CLI::Argument::Number::Int>

CLI syntax element for integer arguments.

=item L<Term::CLI::Argument::String>

CLI syntax element for string arguments.

=back

=head2 Roles

=over 36

=item L<Term::CLI::Role::CommandSet>

Methods to deal with a list of L<Term::CLI::Command> objects.

=item L<Term::CLI::Role::ArgumentSet>

Methods to deal with a list of L<Term::CLI::Argument> objects.

=item L<Term::CLI::Role::HelpText>

Methods to provide help text on a command.

=back

=head1 CLASS RELATIONSHIPS

=head2 Classes

=over 16

=item C<X ---E<gt> Y>

I<Y> inherits from I<X>

=back

    Term::ReadLine
        |
        +--> Term::CLI::ReadLine

    Term::CLI::Base
        |
        +--> Term::CLI
        |
        +--> Term::CLI::Element
                |
                +--> Term::CLI::Command
                |       |
                |       +--> Term::CLI::Command::Help
                |
                +--> Term::CLI::Argument
                        |
                        +--> Term::CLI::Argument::Bool
                        |
                        +--> Term::CLI::Argument::Enum
                        |
                        +--> Term::CLI::Argument::Filename
                        |
                        +--> Term::CLI::Argument::Number
                        |       |
                        |       +--> Term::CLI::Argument::Number::Int
                        |       |
                        |       +--> Term::CLI::Argument::Number::Float
                        |
                        +--> Term::CLI::Argument::String

=head2 Roles

=over 16

=item C<X ---E<gt> Y>

I<X> consumes I<Y>

=back

    Term::CLI -----------+
                          \
                           +---> Term::CLI::Role::CommandSet
                          /
    Term::CLI::Command --+
              \     \
               \     +---> Term::CLI::Role::ArgumentSet
                \
                 +---> Term::CLI::Role::HelpText

=head2 Ownership

=over 16

=item C<X ---E<lt> Y>

I<X> owns (possibly multiple) I<Y> (i.e. "one to many").

=item C<X --- Y>

I<X> owns at most one I<Y> (i.e. "one to one").

=back

            +----- Term::CLI::ReadLine
           /
    Term::CLI
           \
            +----< Term::CLI::Command


                     +----- Term::CLI::ReadLine
                    /
    Term::CLI::Command ---< Term::CLI::Argument
                    \
                     +----< Term::CLI::Command

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Term::CLI::Tutorial>(3p).

L<Term::CLI>(3p),
L<Term::CLI::Argument>(3p),
L<Term::CLI::Argument::Bool>(3p),
L<Term::CLI::Argument::Enum>(3p),
L<Term::CLI::Argument::FileName>(3p),
L<Term::CLI::Argument::Number>(3p),
L<Term::CLI::Argument::Number::Float>(3p),
L<Term::CLI::Argument::Number::Int>(3p),
L<Term::CLI::Argument::String>(3p),
L<Term::CLI::Command>(3p),
L<Term::CLI::L10N>(3p),
L<Term::CLI::L10N::en>(3p),
L<Term::CLI::L10N::nl>(3p),
L<Term::CLI::Role::CommandSet>(3p),
L<Term::CLI::Role::ArgumentSet>(3p),
L<Term::ReadLine>(3p).

=head1 AUTHOR

Steven Bakker E<lt>sbakker@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2018 Steven Bakker

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself. See "perldoc perlartistic."

This software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=cut
