=pod

=encoding utf8

This is an adoptable module. It has no maintainer and no support.

=head1 The Mac::iTerm::LaunchPad module

This is the I<README> for the L<Mac::iTerm::LaunchPad> Perl module. You're probably
looking at this because you don't know where else to find what you're
looking for. Read this once and you might never have to read one again
for any Perl module.

=head2 Documentation

To read about L<Mac::iTerm::LaunchPad>, look at the embedded documentation
in the module itself. Inside the distribution, you can format it
with L<perldoc|http://perldoc.perl.org/perldoc.html>:

	% perldoc lib/Mac/iTerm/LaunchPad.pm

If you have already installed the module, you can specify the module
name instead of the file location:

	% perldoc Mac::iTerm::LaunchPad

You can read the documentation and inspect the meta data on one of the
CPAN web interfaces, such as L<CPAN Search|http://search.cpan.org/dist/Mac-iTerm-LaunchPad> or
L<MetaCPAN|http://www.metacpan.org/module/Mac::iTerm::LaunchPad>:

=over 4

=item *	L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Mac-iTerm-LaunchPad>

=item *	L<http://www.metacpan.org/module/Mac::iTerm::LaunchPad>

=back

The standard module documentation has example uses in the SYNOPSIS
section, but you can also look in the I<examples/> directory (if it's
there), or look at the test files in I<t/>.

=head2 Installation

You can install this module with a CPAN client, which will resolve
and install the dependencies:

	% cpan Mac::iTerm::LaunchPad
	% cpanm Mac::iTerm::LaunchPad

You can also install directly from the distribution directory, which
will also install the dependencies:

	% cpan .
	% cpanm .

You could install just this module manually:

	% perl Makefile.PL
	% make
	% make test
	% make install

You probably don't want to do that unless you're fiddling with the
module and only want to run the tests without installing anything.

=head2 Source location

The meta data, such as the source repository and bug tracker, is in
I<Makefile.PL> or the I<META.*> files it creates. You can find that on
those CPAN web interfaces, but you can also look at files directly in
the source repository:

=over 4

=item *	L<https://github.com/CPAN-Adoptable-Modules/mac-term-launchpad>

=back

=head2 Getting help

This is an abandoned module. It's looking for a maintainer and that might
be you. Other than that you are on your own.

=head2 Copyright and License

You should have received a I<LICENSE> file, but the license is also noted
in the module files. About the only thing you can't do is pretend that
you wrote code that you didn't.

=head2 Good luck!

Enjoy,

brian d foy, bdfoy@cpan.org

=cut
