=head1 NAME

PPM::ppd - PPD (Perl package descriptor) file format

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A file format for PPD data files and a class structure to be able to access
and maniuplate them.

PPD data files are an extended version of the OSD file format.  Being a
derivative of OSD, PPD files are XML documents.  This document will describe
the extensions that have been added for PPD as well as show some examples of
what these files will contain.  Extensions have been added in through the use
of XML namespaces.

As part of PPM, this module will use the PPM::xml module for parsing the PPD
files themselves.  For information on what limitations are imposed by that
module and how PPD files differ from XML documents, please refer to the
PPM::xml documentation.

=head1 FILE FORMAT

The following tags have been added as PPD extensions to OSD:

B<FILELIST>

The FILELIST element is used to list the files that are present for the
given package and state where they should be copied.  The file list
itself can either be given as an attribute ('HREF') of the element, or as
the data contained within the element.  The format for the file list is:

    from/over/here  to/over/here

Each file that is to be copied 'from' will be the name of the file contained
within the <CODEBASE> archive.  The path of the file within the archive
should be given.  The destination of where the file is to be copied to should
be given as a directory local to the LIB directory for this given Perl
installation.

Only one FILELIST element may be present for a given IMPLEMENTATION.  Required.

=over 4

=item Attributes

HREF=<URL> - URL pointing to the document which is the file list

=item Child of

IMPLEMENTATION

=back

B<INSTALLSCRIPT>

The INSTALLSCRIPT element is used to define how to install a given package
of software once it has been obtained and files have been copied to their
appropriate locations.  The INSTALLSCRIPT element is to be used for
packages that require some other form of installation beyond simply a
file copy.  For those packages where copying of files is sufficient, an
INSTALLSCRIPT is not required.  Note that the INSTALLSCRIPT will be run by
PPM B<after> files have been copied to their appropriate locations.  The
script required for installation can either be given as an attribute
('HREF') of the element, as the data contained within this element, or as
the name of a file contained within the <CODEBASE> element for this
installation.  Only one INSTALLSCRIPT element may be present for a
given implementation.  Optional.

=over 4

=item Attributes

HREF=<URL> - URL to the script used for installation of this package. (optional)

EXEC=<string> - Shell/program to use to execute the script. (required)

CODEBASEFILE=<filename> - File to use as an installation script, which is to be
found inside the <CODEBASE> file.

=item Child of

IMPLEMENTATION

=back

B<UNINSTALLSCRIPT>

The UNINSTALLSCRIPT element is used to define how to un-install a given
package of software after it has already been installed.  The UNINSTALLSCRIPT
element is to be used for packages that require some other form of
uninstallation beyond simply removing the appropriate files.  For those packages
where removal of files is sufficient, an UNINSTALLSCRIPT is not required.  Note
that the UNINSTALLSCRIPT will be run by PPM B<before> any files are removed.
The script required for this removal can either be given as an attribute
('HREF') of the element, as the data contained within this element, or as the
name of a file contained within the <CODEBASE> element for this installation.
Only one UNINSTALLSCRIPT element may be present for a given implementation.
Currently unsupported.

=over 4

=item Attributes

HREF=<URL> - URL to the script used for installation of this package. (optional)

EXEC=<string> - Shell/program to use to execute the script. (required)

CODEBASEFILE=<filename> - File to use as an installation script, which is to be
found inside the <CODEBASE> file.

=item Child of

IMPLEMENTATION

=back

B<AUTHOR>

The AUTHOR element is used to provide the name and e-mail address of the
author of the package.  This information is required when working with signed
packages.  Multiple AUTHOR elements may be present for a given package.

=over 4

=item Attributes

NAME=<string> - Full name of author. (required)

EMAIL=<email> - E-mail address of author. (required)

=item Child of

SOFTPKG

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

<SOFTPKG NAME="PPM::ppm" VERSION="1,0,0,0">
    <TITLE>PPM::ppm</TITLE>
    <ABSTRACT>Perl package manager file format</ABSTRACT>
    <LICENSE HREF="http://www.ActiveState.com/ppm/ppm.html" />
    <AUTHOR NAME="Dick Hardt" EMAIL="dick_hardt@ActiveState.com" />
    <AUTHOR NAME="Graham TerMarsch" EMAIL="graham@dotcom.bc.ca" />

    <!-- This is incomplete!!!  This is only the distribution and
    installation for Unix-type systems.  We're going to need
    to have a look at how to handle different OSs; do we have
    different IMPLEMENTATIONs for each, with different INSTALL
    scripts (some using 'cp', some using 'copy', etc.) or do
    we do some processing of the installation script internally
    to determine how to install the software. -->

    <IMPLEMENTATION>
        <IMPLTYPE VALUE="Perl" />
        <LANGUAGE VALUE="en" />
        <CODEBASE HREF="http://www.ActiveState.com/ppm/ppm.pm" />

        <!-- We're dependant on the XML parser -->
        <DEPENDENCY>
            <CODEBASE HREF="http://www.ActiveState.com/ppm/xml.ppm" />
        </DEPENDENCY>

        <!-- Installation for Unix type systems using a remote script -->
        <INSTALL SCRIPT="http://www.ActiveState.com/ppm/inst.ppm.pm" EXEC="sh" />

        <!-- Uninstallation for Unix type systems using inlined script -->
<!-- Can we assume that this script will run in the /usr/lib/perl5 directory??? -->
        <UNINSTALL EXEC="sh">
            rm PPM/ppm.pm
        </UNINSTALL>
    </IMPLEMENTATION>
</SOFTPKG>

=head1 DTD

