=head1 NAME

OpenGL::Shader - abstraction for managing OpenGL shaders

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  ##########
  # Load and manage a shader
  use OpenGL(':all');
  use OpenGL::Shader;
  # Note: these APIs/methods requires a current GL context/window
  glutInit();
  glutInitDisplayMode(GLUT_RGBA);
  glutInitWindowSize($w,$h);
  my $Window_ID = glutCreateWindow( "OpenGL::Shader test" );
  my $shdr = OpenGL::Shader->new();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides an extensible abstraction for managing OpenGL shaders.
As of 1.02 it is included with the L<OpenGL> distribution.

Example usage:

  # Get a hashref of shader types
  my $shaders = $OpenGL::Shader::GetTypes();

  # Test for shader support
  my $ok = OpenGL::Shader::HasType('Cg');

  # Instantiate a shader - list acceptable shaders by priority
  my $shdr = OpenGL::Shader->new('GLSL','ARB');

  # Get shader type and version
  my $type = $shdr->GetType();
  my $ver = $shdr->GetVersion();
  my $desc = $shdr->GetDescription(); # Get shader description

  # Load, compile and link shader by strings. False means all OK
  my $stat = $shdr->Load($fragment,$vertex);

  # or: Load, compile and link shader by files
  my $stat = $shdr->LoadFiles($fragment_file,$vertex_file);

  # Get shader GL constants.
  my $fragment_const = $shdr->GetFragmentConstant();
  my $vertex_const = $shdr->GetVertexConstant();
  # Get objects.
  my $fragment_shader = $shdr->GetFragmentShader();
  my $vertex_shader = $shdr->GetVertexShader();
  my $program = $shdr->GetProgram();

  # Enable
  $shdr->Enable();

  # Get vertex attribute ID
  # returns undef if not supported or not found
  my $attr_id = $self->MapAttr($attr_name);
  glVertexAttrib4fARB($attr_id,$x,$y,$z,$w);

  # Get Global Variable ID (uniform/local)
  my $var_id = $self->Map($var_name);

  # Set float4 vector variable
  $stat = $self->SetVector($var_name,$x,$y,$z,$w);

  # Set float4x4 matrix via OGA
  $stat = $self->SetMatrix($var_name,$oga);

  # Do GL rendering

  # Disable
  $shdr->Disable();

  # Done
  glutDestroyWindow($Window_ID);

=head1 AUTHOR

Bob "grafman" Free - grafman@graphcomp.com.
Copyright 2007 Graphcomp - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
