=encoding ISO8859-1


=head1 NAME

Win32::GUI::UserGuide::Concepts - General Concepts

=head1 Packages

Packages in Win32::GUI can be divided into three main
categories: B<Windows>, B<Controls> and B<Resources>;
but a big part of the core of this module is in the
L<Win32::GUI|Win32::GUI::GUI> package. All the generic
functions are defined there, and all the components 
of the user interface inherit from it, so that most 
of the functions that refer to windows (eg. Show, Hide,
Height, Enable, and so on) apply to every object and
can be used as their methods:

    $Window->Show();
    $Window->Button1->Show();

Some other functions (like for example GetCursorPos)
aren't applicable to an object, and they require
a fully qualified call including the package name:

    ($x, $y) = Win32::GUI::GetCursorPos();

L<Windows|/Windows> are the well known windows that you see on 
your screen; your script will probably generate one
or more window that contain your user interface;
this content is usually made up of B<Controls> (eg.
labels, buttons, input fields and so on).
They can also be considered as child windows,
and, as said, they are all inherited from the 
Win32::GUI package.

L<Resources|/Resources> are of a different category: they
build up, so to say, the graphical Windows
toolkit (usually referred to as GDI, Graphics
Device Interface); you'll find there fonts, 
brushes, bitmaps, icons, cursors and so on.
These objects are generally associated with
your windows and controls (eg. you can set
a windows or controls font); some of them,
like pens and brushes, are used instead with
the L<DC|Win32::GUI::DC> package, which
implement the drawing primitives.

There are then some packages that simply don't
fit into the three categories above, because
their use goes beyond the simple user interface:
this is the case with L<Class|/Others>
and the mentioned L<DC|/Others>.


=head1 Objects

You create an object using its B<constructor>,
which is usally of the form:

    $Object = new Win32::GUI::<something>( <options> );

where <something> is the class of the object you want 
to create (eg. Window, Menu, Font, etc.) and <options>
are the characteristics of your object. Once you have
the $Object variable, you can invoke methods on it:

    $Object->Show();

A different approach is possible with B<Controls>.
Usually, once you created your $Window object, you
will add controls in it with this construct:

    $Window->AddButton( <options> );

This function will return a $Button object as you
may expect, but you don't need to store it in a
variable: Win32::GUI will use the very special
C<-name> option to store the object reference
in the window as a named key (or sub-object):

    $Window->AddButton( -name => "Button1" );
    $Window->Button1->Show();
    # or
    $Window->{'Button1'}->Show();

These sub-objects are really hash keys, but
for your convenience are also AUTOLOAD'ed
as if they were subroutines (see AutoLoader
for details); this can introduce some confusion
if you name an object with the same name as a
Win32::GUI function.

    $Window->AddButton( -name => "Show" );
    $Window->Show->Show();

This syntax will not work because "Show" is
already defined as a method of your $Window
object. The advice is to use a different
name for your object, but if you B<really>
can't renounce to it, you can still use the
safer syntax:

    $Window->{'Show'}->Show();

It is of course always possible, if you don't
mind using too much variables, to use the 
less elegant form:

    $Button1 = $Window->AddButton( ... );
    $Button1->Show();

=head1 Options

The definition of an object is made up of
B<options>, which are pretty much
like an associative array; option names
are always lowercase and preceded by a dash (-),
while their value vary (can be strings,
numbers, objects or array references).

A number of options is common to any window
(and control), and they're documented in 
L<Common options|Win32::GUI::Reference::Options>; furthermore,
different objects have different specific
options, documented in the single packages
reference.

The most important option for a window is
C<-name>; this defines the name of the object
in its container (as explained above) and
the name used in the L<Events|/Events> naming 
convention:

    $Window->AddButton( -name => "Button1" );
    
    $Window->Button1->Show();
    
    sub Button1_Click { print "ouch!\n"; }

An example of using a complete set of options:

    $Window = new Win32::GUI::Window(
        -name   => "Window",
        -title  => "Perl Window Example",
        -left   => 100,  
        -top    => 100,
        -width  => 500, 
        -height => 400,         
        -menu   => $Menu,
    );

=head1 The dialog phase

After creating your windows and done all the needed
initialization processes, you may probably want your
script to present the user with a window and await
for his actions; in other words, you want to interact
with the user. This is done in the dialog phase.

To enter the dialog phase simply call this instruction:

    Win32::GUI::Dialog();

or better yet, if you want to check the exit code
of your GUI program:

    $exitcode = Win32::GUI::Dialog();

When the script encounter this instruction, its 
execution halts and the user has the ability to 
interact with what's on the screen. Since windows
are by default created in an invisible state, you
may probably call before something like:

    $Window->Show();

if your program is supposed to start with $Window
as its entry point.

While in the dialog phase, user's actions will
generate B<Events> as needed. This phase ends
when an event returns -1 or you press Cancel
in response to a program error (see below for
more details); when it ends, the control returns
to the main body of your script (at the line after
the one with the Win32::GUI::Dialog call) 
and it can go on normally.


=head1 Events

Events are Perl subs that are called in response
to an event that occurred in the user interface, usually
generated by an action of the user. For example,
a button has a Click event that is called when the
user pushes it. The naming convention for events
follows the Microsoft Visual Basic's one; its form
is:

    OBJECTNAME_Eventname

(note there's an underscore in between),
where B<OBJECTNAME> is the value of the C<-name>
option used when creating the object, and 
B<Eventname> is the event name, eg. Click.
So if you have a button named C<Button1>, your
Click event will be defined as follows:

    sub Button1_Click {
        # ...do something...
    }

The code inside will be executed when C<Button1>
gets pressed.

Win32::GUI also interprets the value returned
by the sub; unless otherwise documented in the
event description, the meaning of the return
value is:

=over

=item * 1 (one, or a true value)

the script proceeds normally and the event is
passed to the underlying default event 
processor.

=item * 0 (zero)

the dialog phase continues but the event is
not passed to the default event processor
(what this means effectively depends on the
event).

=item * -1 (minus one)

the dialog phase ends, and control returns to
the main body of your script. You will most
probably use this to end your program:

    sub Window_Terminate {
        return -1;
    }

=back

The behaviour of the default event processor
depends on the control and the event; in case
of doubt, is always a good idea to end your event 
with an explicit:

    return 1;

Finally, you should note that events are really
B<evaluated> (as if they were called with B<eval()>),
so that errors are trapped, and a message box is shown.
This box reports the offending event name on the title bar, 
the error message in its body and has OK and Cancel
buttons. If you press OK, Win32::GUI will ignore the
error and go on with the dialog (the event, of course,
doesn't take place); if you press Cancel instead the
dialog will end (with return code -1).
This means that for example if you define an event like:

    sub Button1_Click {
        die();
    }

your script will not die immediately at the click of a
button, but the message box will appear, reporting for 
example "Died at script.pl line 73".

=head1 Windows

In its widest acception, windows include what you normally
call a window (sometimes referred to as a "top level window"),
controls (sometimes referred to as "child windows") and even 
L<Non-owned windows|/Non-owned windows> (not created by Win32::GUI).

Real (top level) windows are the container of your user
interface; Win32::GUI defines two packages, L<Window|Win32::GUI::Window>
and L<DialogBox|Win32::GUI::DialogBox>. By default, a Window has a title
bar, the usual minimize/maximize/close buttons, a system
menu (the button on the top left corner) and resizable borders. 
A DialogBox is very similar, except that by default it cannot 
be resized and it doesn't have the minimize and maximize buttons.
The main difference between the two packages is in the dialog
phase; DialogBox intercepts the tab and arrow keys to switch 
between controls, the use of Return and Esc for the Ok and
Cancel button and accelerators, while Window not.

=head1 Controls

Also known as "widgets" , these represent the content of 
your windows, and includes almost all the controls provided
by Windows:

=over

=item * L<Animation|Win32::GUI::Animation>

=item * L<Button|Win32::GUI::Button>

=item * L<Checkbox|Win32::GUI::Checkbox>

=item * L<Combobox|Win32::GUI::Combobox>

=item * L<Label|Win32::GUI::Label>

=item * L<ListView|Win32::GUI::ListView>

=item * L<Listbox|Win32::GUI::ListBox>

=item * L<NotifyIcon|Win32::GUI::NotifyIcon>

=item * L<ProgressBar|Win32::GUI::ProgressBar>

=item * L<RadioButton|Win32::GUI::RadioButton>

=item * L<Rebar|Win32::GUI::Rebar>

=item * L<RichEdit|Win32::GUI::RichEdit>

=item * L<Slider|Win32::GUI::Slider>

=item * L<StatusBar|Win32::GUI::StatusBar>

=item * L<TabStrip|Win32::GUI::Tabstrip>

=item * L<Textfield|Win32::GUI::Textfield>

=item * L<Timer|Win32::GUI::Timer>

=item * L<Toolbar|Win32::GUI::Toolbar>

=item * L<Tooltip|Win32::GUI::Tooltip>

=item * L<TreeView|Win32::GUI::TreeView>

=item * L<UpDown|Win32::GUI::UpDown>

=back

=head1 Resources

=over

=item * L<Bitmap|Win32::GUI::Bitmap>

=item * L<Brush|Win32::GUI::Brush>

=item * L<Cursor|Win32::GUI::Cursor>

=item * L<Font|Win32::GUI::Font>

=item * L<Icon|Win32::GUI::Icon>

=item * L<ImageList|Win32::GUI::ImageList>

=item * L<Menu|Win32::GUI::Menu>

=item * L<MenuButton|Win32::GUI::MenuButton>

=item * L<MenuItem|Win32::GUI::MenuItem>

=item * L<Pen|Win32::GUI::Pen>

=back

=head1 Others

=over

=item * L<Class|Win32::GUI::Class>

=item * L<DC|Win32::GUI::DC>

=back

=head1 Non-owned windows

Every window, even windows not created by your Perl script,
can be referenced by Win32::GUI; all you need to know is
its "handle", a numerical value that identifies that window.
Many functions in the Win32::GUI package return such handles,
as for example:

    $First = Win32::GUI::GetForegroundWindow();

This value can then be passed to any function that requires
a window object; but of course, not being an object, you can't
call it as a method:

    Win32::GUI::Hide($First); # correct
    $First->Hide();           # wrong

Should you need to know the numerical handle of a window
created by Win32::GUI, it is stored in its C<-handle> key
(this is the value that almost all function really use):

    print "Window handle is $Window->{-handle} \n";

=head1 Colors

Wherever you need to express a color, there are two
possibilities: 

=over

=item first: 

Use a numeric value that
contains red, green and blue components
(that's the form Windows uses); expressing this
form in hexadecimal, components are reversed with
respect to the traditional (RGB) order:

    0xBBGGRR

Each components range is 0 to 0xFF, or 255; 
a value of 0, 0, 0 (0x000000) represents black,
while a value of 255, 255, 255 (0xFFFFFF) represents
white.
The following are all valid color definitions in
hexadecimal and decimal format (for practical reasons, 
you would probably prefer the hexadecimal notation):

    $color = 0xFF0000;  # blue
    $color = 16711680;  # blue
    $color = 255 << 16; # blue
    $color = 0x00FF00;  # green
    $color = 65280;     # green
    $color = 0x80FFFF;  # pale yellow
    $color = 8454143;   # pale yellow

=item second:

Use a reference to a list with 3 values that
express the red, green and blue components as above:

    [ R, G, B ]

Note that this is NOT a plain list (since a color
is usually one parameter in a list of parameters to a 
function, it wouldn't make much sense); so the following
forms are valid:

    [ 0, 0, 0 ]
    [ 255, 255, 255]
    [ 0x80, 0xFF, 0xFF ]
    \@color

=back

=for comment $Id: pod_postamble.tpl,v 1.2 2005/08/03 21:45:59 robertemay Exp $

=head1 VERSION

Documentation for Win32::GUI v1.13 created 26 Jul 2016

This document is autogenerated by the build process. Edits made here will be lost.
Edit F<docs/GUI/UserGuide/Concepts.pod> instead.

=head1 SUPPORT

Homepage: L<http://perl-win32-gui.sourceforge.net/>.

For further support join the users mailing list from the website
at L<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/perl-win32-gui-users>.  There is a searchable list archive at L<http://sourceforge.net/p/perl-win32-gui/mailman/perl-win32-gui-users/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENCE

Copyright (c) 1997..2016 Aldo Calpini. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.


