=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Couch::DB::Cluster - interface for cluster management

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $cluster = $couchdb->cluster;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This modules groups all CouchDB API calls which relate to clustering,
replication, sharind, and related jobs.  There are too many related
methods, so they got their own module.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Couch::DB::Cluster-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

B<Do not call> the method yourself: use L<Couch::DB::cluster()|Couch::DB/"Interface starting points">.

 -Option--Default
  couch   <required>

=over 2

=item couch => C<Couch::DB>-object

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<couch>()

=back

=head2 Managing a Cluster

B<All CouchDB API calls> documented below, support C<%options> like C<delay>,
C<client>, and C<on_error>.  See L<Couch::DB/Using the CouchDB API>.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<clusterSetup>($config, %options)

 [CouchDB API "POST /_cluster_setup", since 2.0, UNTESTED]

Configure a node as a single (standalone) node, as part of a cluster,
or finalise a cluster.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<clusterState>(%options)

 [CouchDB API "GET /_cluster_setup", since 2.0]

Describes the status of this CouchDB instance is in the cluster.
Option C<ensure_dbs_exist>.

=back

=head2 Sharding

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<reshardJob>($jobid, %options)

 [CouchDB API "GET /_reshard/jobs/{jobid}", since 2.4, UNTESTED]

Show the resharding activity.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<reshardJobChange>($jobid, %options)

 [CouchDB API "PUT /_reshard/jobs/{jobid}/state", since 2.4, UNTESTED]
Change the resharding job status.

 -Option--Default
  reason  undef
  state   <required>

=over 2

=item reason => STRING

=item state => STRING

Can be C<new>, C<running>, C<stopped>, C<completed>, or C<failed>.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<reshardJobRemove>($jobid, %options)

 [CouchDB API "DELETE /_reshard/jobs/{jobid}", since 2.4, UNTESTED]

Show the resharding activity.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<reshardJobState>($jobid, %options)

 [CouchDB API "GET /_reshard/jobs/{jobid}/state", since 2.4, UNTESTED]

Show the resharding job status.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<reshardJobs>(%options)

 [CouchDB API "GET /_reshard/jobs", since 2.4]

Show the resharding activity.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<reshardStart>(\%create, %options)

 [CouchDB API "POST /_reshard/jobs", since 2.4, UNTESTED]

Create resharding jobs.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<reshardStatus>(%options)

 [CouchDB API "GET /_reshard", since 2.4]
 [CouchDB API "GET /_reshard/state", since 2.4]

Retrieve the state of resharding on the cluster.

B<Be warned> that the reply with counts returns C<state_reason>,
where the version without returns C<reason>.

 -Option--Default
  counts  false

=over 2

=item counts => BOOLEAN

Include the job counts in the result.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<resharding>(%options)

 [CouchDB API "PUT /_reshard/state", since 2.4, UNTESTED]

Start or stop the resharding process.

 -Option--Default
  reason  undef
  state   <required>

=over 2

=item reason => STRING

=item state => STRING

Can be C<stopped> or C<running>.  Stopped state can be resumed into running.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<shardsForDB>($db, %options)

 [CouchDB API "GET /{db}/_shards", since 2.0]

Returns the structure of the shared used to store a database.  Pass this
a C<$db> as L<Couch::DB::Database|Couch::DB::Database>-object.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<shardsForDoc>($doc, %options)

 [CouchDB API "GET /{db}/_shards/{docid}", since 2.0]

Returns the structure of the shared used to store a database.  Pass this
a C<$db> as L<Couch::DB::Database|Couch::DB::Database>-object.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<syncShards>($db, %options)

 [CouchDB API "POST /{db}/_sync_shards", since 2.3.1]

Force (re-)sharding of documents, usually in response to changes in the setup.
Pass this a C<$db> as L<Couch::DB::Database|Couch::DB::Database>-object.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Couch-DB distribution version 0.200,
built on June 18, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2024-2025 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

