=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Couch::DB::Document - one document as exchanged with a CouchDB server

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Couch::DB::Document is extended by
   Couch::DB::Design

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $doc = $couch->db($dbname)->doc($docid);
  my $doc = $db->doc->create(\%data);
  my $doc = $db->doc($id, local => 1);

  my $doc = $db->doc($id, content => { });
  $doc->save;
  $db->saveBulk([$doc]);

  my $content = $db->latest;  # content of latest revision

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class manages one document, without understanding the payload.  When
exchanging questions and answers with the server, keys which start with
an underscore (C<_>) may get added and removed: they should not be visible
in your data.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Couch::DB::Document-E<gt>B<fromResult>($result, $data, %options)

=item Couch::DB::Document-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option --Default
  batch    from database
  content  undef
  db       undef
  id       undef
  local    false
  row      undef

=over 2

=item batch => BOOLEAN

For all of the writes which support it, use batch (no wait) writing.  Of course,
this may cause data to be lost when technical or logical issues emerge while the
actual writing is done, but is much faster.

=item content => DATA

Create a new document, with the first revision of the content.  Once saved,
it will get a revision.

=item db => L<Couch::DB::Database|Couch::DB::Database>-object

If this document is database related.

=item id => ID

When you are creating a new document (L<create()|Couch::DB::Document/"Document in the database">), you may leave this open to get
an id generated.  Otherwise, this parameter is required.

=item local => BOOLEAN

Use a local document: do not replicate it to other instances.  Only limited
actions are permitted on local documents... probably they do not support
attachments.

=item row => L<Couch::DB::Row|Couch::DB::Row>-object

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<batch>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<couch>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<db>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<id>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<row>( [$row] )

Returns the L<Couch::DB::Row|Couch::DB::Row>-object where this document was found, if any.

=back

=head2 Content

B<Warning:> Where Perl does not support the same data-types as JSON, you need to
be very careful when addressing fields from this structure.  B<Much better> is
it to use the provided abstraction methods, which hide those differences.  Those
also hide changes in the server software, over time.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<isDeleted>()

Returns a boolean whether the document is delete.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<isLocal>()

This documents does not get replicated over nodes.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<latest>()

Returns the data of the latest revision of the document, as retreived
by any former call on this document object.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<rev>()

The latest revision of this document.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<revision>($rev)

Returns the data for document revision $rev, if retreived by a former
call.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<revisions>()

Returns a sorted list of all known revisions, as retreived by a former
call.  They are sorted, newest first.

=back

=head2 Document details

These methods usually require a L<get()|Couch::DB::Document/"Document in the database"> with sufficient parameters to
be useable (they die on unsuffient details).

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<conflicts>()

Returns a LIST with conflict details.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<deletedConflicts>()

Returns a LIST with deletedConflict details.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<revisionInfo>($revision)

Returns a HASH with information about one $revision only.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<revisionsInfo>()

Returns a HASH with all revisions and their status.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<updateSequence>()

Returns the update sequence code for this document on the current server (local_seq).
Only useful when you use an explicit C<client> when you L<get()|Couch::DB::Document/"Document in the database"> the document.

=back

=head2 Document in the database

B<All CouchDB API calls> documented below, support %options like C<_delay>
and C<on_error>.  See L<Couch::DB/Using the CouchDB API>.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<appendTo>($doc, %options)

 [CouchDB API "COPY /{db}/{docid}", PARTIAL]
 [CouchDB API "COPY /{db}/_local/{docid}", PARTIAL]

See also L<cloneInto()|Couch::DB::Document/"Document in the database">.
As %options: C<batch> and C<rev>.

example: appending one document into an other

   my $from = $db->doc('from');
   $from->get or die;
   my $to   = $db->doc('to');   # does not exist
   $to->get or die;
   $from->appendTo($to) or die;

=item $obj-E<gt>B<cloneInto>($doc, %options)

 [CouchDB API "COPY /{db}/{docid}", PARTIAL]
 [CouchDB API "COPY /{db}/_local/{docid}", PARTIAL]

See also L<appendTo()|Couch::DB::Document/"Document in the database">.

For C<%options>, you can use C<batch> and C<rev>.

example: cloning one document into a new one

   my $from = $db->doc('from');
   $from->get or die;
   my $to   = $db->doc('to');   # does not exist
   $from->cloneInto($to) or die;

=item $obj-E<gt>B<create>(\%data, %options)

 [CouchDB API "POST /{db}"]

Save this document for the first time to the database. Your content of the
document is in %data.  When you pick your own document ids, you can also use
L<update()|Couch::DB::Document/"Document in the database"> for a first save.

 -Option--Default
  batch   new(batch)

=over 2

=item batch => BOOLEAN

Do not wait for the write action to be completed.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<delete>(%options)

 [CouchDB API "DELETE /{db}/{docid}"]
 [CouchDB API "DELETE /{db}/_local/{docid}"]

Flag the document to be deleted.  A new revision is created, which reflects this.
Only later, when all replications know it and compaction is run, the document
versions will disappear.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<exists>(%option)

 [CouchDB API "HEAD /{db}/{docid}"]

Check whether the document exists.  You may get some useful response headers.

example: 

  if($db->doc($id)->exists) { ... }

=item $obj-E<gt>B<get>( [\%flags, %options] )

 [CouchDB API "GET /{db}/{docid}"]
 [CouchDB API "GET /{db}/_local/{docid}"]

Retrieve document data and information from the database.  There are a zillion
of %options to collect additional meta-data.

When no explicit revision (option C<rev>) is given, then the latest
revision is collected.

Returned is, as usual, whether the database gave a successful response. The data
received will get merged into this object's attributes.

example: use of get()

  my $game = $db->doc('monopoly');
  $game->get(latest => 1) or die;
  my $data = $game->latest;

=item $obj-E<gt>B<update>(\%data, %options)

 [CouchDB API "PUT /{db}/{docid}"]
 [CouchDB API "PUT /{db}/_local/{docid}"]

Save a new revision of this document to the database.  If docid is new,
then it will be created, otherwise a new revision is added.  Your content
of the document is in %data.

When you want to create a new document, where the servers creates the id, then
use L<create()|Couch::DB::Document/"Document in the database">.

 -Option--Default
  batch   new(batch)

=over 2

=item batch => BOOLEAN

Do not wait for the write action to be completed.

=back

=back

=head2 Attachments

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<attDelete>($name, %options)

 [CouchDB API "DELETE /{db}/{docid}/{attname}", UNTESTED]

Deletes an attachment of this document.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<attExists>($name, %options)

 [CouchDB API "HEAD /{db}/{docid}/{attname}", UNTESTED]
The response is empty, but contains some useful headers.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<attInfo>($name)

Return a structure with meta-data about the attachments.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<attLoad>($name, %options)

 [CouchDB API "GET /{db}/{docid}/{attname}", UNTESTED]

Load the data of the attachment into this Document.

If the content-type of the attachment is C<application/octet-stream>,
then you can use the C<Accept-Ranges> header (option C<_header>) to
select bytes inside the attachement.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<attSave>($name, $data, %options)

 [CouchDB API "PUT /{db}/{docid}/{attname}", UNTESTED]

The data is bytes.

 -Option--Default
  type    application/octet-stream

=over 2

=item type => IANA-MediaType

For text documents, this may contain a charset like C<text/plain; charset="utf-8">.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<attachment>($name)

Returns the bytes of the named attachment (of course, you need to
get it first).

=item $obj-E<gt>B<attachments>()

Returns the names of all attachments.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Couch-DB distribution version 0.200,
built on June 18, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2024-2025 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

