=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Couch::DB::Node - represent a node in the cluster

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $node = $couch->node('node1@127.0.0.1');
  my $node = $client->node;

  # Internal use only
  my $node = Couch::DB::Node->new(name => $name, couch => $couch);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This represents a Node in the database cluster.  When this object is created,
it may very well be that there is no knowledge about the node yet.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Couch::DB::Node-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option--Default
  couch   <required>
  name    <required>

=over 2

=item couch => C<Couch::DB>-object

=item name => STRING

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<couch>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<name>()

=back

=head2 Node information

B<All CouchDB API calls> documented below, support %options like C<_delay>
and C<on_error>.  See L<Couch::DB/Using the CouchDB API>.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<config>(%options)

 [CouchDB API "GET /_node/{node-name}/_config", UNTESTED]
 [CouchDB API "GET /_node/{node-name}/_config/{section}", UNTESTED]
 [CouchDB API "GET /_node/{node-name}/_config/{section}/{key}", UNTESTED]

Returns the node configuration.

At least according to the example in the spec, all values are strings.
So, a boolean will be string "true" or "false".  The API notes that the
actual type of values is unpredictable.

 -Option --Default
  key      undef
  section  undef

=over 2

=item key => STRING

(Requires a section to be specified)

=item section => STRING

=back

example: of config

  # Three times the same.  The last may be the most efficient for the server.
  my $mode = $node->config->values->{log}{level};
  my $mode = $node->config(section => 'log')->values->{level};
  my $mode = $node->config(section => 'log', key => 'level')->values;

=item $obj-E<gt>B<configChange>($section, $key, $value, %options)

 [CouchDB API "PUT /_node/{node-name}/_config/{section}/{key}", UNTESTED]>

Change one value in the configuration.  Probably, it should be followed by
a L<configReload()|Couch::DB::Node/"Node information">: changes may not be commited without reload.

You MAY need to convert booleans to string "true" or "false" by hand.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<configDelete>($section, $key, %options)

 [CouchDB API "DELETE /_node/{node-name}/_config/{section}/{key}", UNTESTED]>

Remove one value in the configuration.  Probably, it should be followed by
a L<configReload()|Couch::DB::Node/"Node information">: changes may not be commited without reload.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<configReload>(%options)

 [CouchDB API "POST /_node/{node-name}/_config/_reload", UNTESTED]>

Re-apply the configuration to the node.  This has as side-effect that the
(changed) configuration of the node will be saved.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<restart>(%options)

 [CouchDB API "POST /_node/{node-name}/_restart", UNTESTED]

This may help you in a test environment, but should not be used in
production, according to the API documentation.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<server>(%options)

 [CouchDB API "GET /_node/{node-name}/_system", UNTESTED]

Presents information about the system of the server where the node
runs on.

B<Be aware> that the method is called C<server>, not C<system>
to avoid confusion with the local system and Perl's C<system>
function.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<software>(%options)

 [CouchDB API "GET /_node/{node-name}/_versions", UNTESTED]

Get details of some software running the node.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<stats>(%options)

 [CouchDB API "GET /_node/{node-name}/_stats", UNTESTED]

Collect node statistics.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Couch-DB distribution version 0.200,
built on June 18, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2024-2025 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

