=head1 CHANGELOG FOR XML::SRS


=head2 VERSION 0.09, 14 February 2011

=over

=item *

Removed dependency on Crypt::Password. Passwords are now sent as plain text,
which is supported by the SRS (and secure, as they're sent via https).

=back

=head2 VERSION 0.07, 9 February 2011

=over

=item *

Removed dependency on MooseX::Method::Signatures

=item *

Added support for DNSSEC files

=item *

Various other changes and tweaks, e.g. adding coercion rules.

=item *

Enhanced documentation

=back

=head2 VERSION 0.06, 12 July 2010

=over

=item *

Broken v0.05 dependencies, reuploading with correct deps.

=back

=head2 VERSION 0.05, 12 July 2010

=over

=item *

Various timestamp fixes including better coercion.

=item *

Various fixed to deCamelCase into nicer_vars.

=item *

Add support for C<AckMessages> and mapping for C<DomainTransfer>.

=item *

Add support for C<GetMessages>, including the new C<QueueMode> and
C<TypeFilter> attributes/elements.

=item *

Support C<Error> responses with no C<ErrorDetails> elements, as
required by the RNC.

=item *

Refactoring of C<Handle> and C<Contact> to use inheritance and thereby
re-use XML attribute/element definitions.

=back

=head2 VERSION 0.04, 25 JUNE 2010

=over

=item *

Add Classes and tests for SRS Handles.

=back

=head2 VERSION 0.03, 12 MAY 2010

=over

=item *

Implement the C<RegistrarUpdate> message

=item *

Mark the C<ActionId> attribute as required on all update actions.

=back

=head2 VERSION 0.02, 7 MAY 2010

=over

=item *

More coerce convenience rules:

=over

=item *

Use the existing convenience coercion rules for L<XML::SRS::Contact>
fields on L<XML::SRS::Registrar> contact fields.

=item *

Support setting all the date/time XML fields with one Moose attribute,
and coerce TimeStamp values from L<MooseX::TimestampTZ> types
(hopefully this will cascade to allow any ISO-8601 form supported by
that module)

=item *

The C<epp_auth> property of L<XML::SRS::Registrar> can be set to the
unencrypted or a pre-encrypted string, and it will automatically get
turned into an encrypted, salted string if required, thanks to the
magical awesomeness of L<Crypt::Password>.

=back

=item *

A couple of attribute renames; like L<XML::EPP>, any non-perlish
attribute name is subject to being renamed to be perlish :-)

Added a note to the main L<XML::SRS> man page to make it clear that
this might happen.

=item *

Add global L<$XML::SRS::PROTOCOL_VERSION>

=item *

=back

=cut

