=head1 NAME

Getopt::Alt::CookBook - Example usages of Getopt::Alt;

=head1 VERSION

This documentation refers to Getopt::Alt version 0.4.7.

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Simple

=head3 Comparison with L<Getopt::Long>

Simple example comparing L<Getopt::Long>'s C<GetOptions> to L<Getopt::Alt>'s
C<get_options>

GetOptions:

    use Getopt::Long;
    use Pod::Usage;

    my %option;
    Getopt::Long::Configure('bundling');
    GetOptions(
        \%option,
        'dir|d=s',
        'verbose|v+',
        'man',
        'help',
        'VERSION!',
    ) or pod2usage(2);

    if ( $option{'VERSION'} ) {
        print "$name Version = $VERSION\n";
        exit 1;
    }
    elsif ( $option{'man'} ) {
        pod2usage( -verbose => 2 );
    }
    elsif ( $option{'help'} ) {
        pod2usage( -verbose => 1 );
    }

    # use options found in %options

get_options:

    use Getopt::Alt qw/get_options/;

    my ($options) = get_options(
        { helper => 1 },
        [ 'dir|d=s' ],
    );

    # use options found in %$options

The helper parameter gives adds the verbose, man, help and VERSION options to
your options and will if --VERSION specified output the version of the calling
module, if --man or --help is used will run pod2usage on the calling script.
This all reduces the amount of boiler plate code needed in your scripts (of
cause this means you should also write POD for your script).

=head2 Sub-Commands

L<Getopt::Alt> has three sub command modes:

=over 4

=item *

simple

=item *

HASH

=item *

Module

=back

=head3 Simple

Just stops processing at first non-option parameter (assumed to be the sub command).
Any further processing of sub-commands must be made manually (eg having what ever
processes the sub-command doing further processing).

    use Getopt::Alt qw/get_options/;

    my ($options, $cmd) = get_options(
        { helper => 1, sub_command => 1 },
        [ 'dir|d=s' ],
    );

    # on the command line
    $ command --dir=/some/where sub --not-processed

    # will result in $option->{dir} eq /some/where and $cmd eq 'sub' and
    # @ARGV having ['--not-processed']

=head3 HASH

A hash is passed with the keys representing the sub commands and the values are
the sub-commands parameters.

    use Getopt::Alt qw/get_options/;

    my ($options, $cmd) = get_options(
        {
            helper => 1,
            sub_command => {
                sub => [
                    'to be implemented'
                ],
            },
        }
        [ 'dir|d=s' ],
    );

=head3 Module

The final form for sub-commands is that they should be picked up by other modules

=head2 Auto Completion

    use Getopt::Alt qw/get_options/;

    my ($options, $cmd) = get_options(
        { helper => 1, auto_complete => \&my_auto },
        [ 'dir|d=s' ],
    );


The C<auto_complete> parameter takes a code reference with is called when the
script is with the C<--auto-complete> parameter (supplied by helper => 1).
L<Getopt::Alt> will try to complete any unfinished options but not their
values that is left to for C<$self-E<gt>E<lt>sub_commandE<gt>> to process.

Eg C<~/.bashrc> function for auto completion of "command"

    _command() {
        local cur prev opts
        COMPREPLY=()
        cur="${COMP_WORDS[COMP_CWORD]}"
        prev="${COMP_WORDS[COMP_CWORD-1]}"
        # get list of command line options
        opts=$(command --auto-complete --auto-complete-list)

        if [[ ${cur} == -* && ${COMP_CWORD} -eq 1 ]]; then
            COMPREPLY=($(compgen -W "${opts}" -- ${cur}))
        else
            local sonames=$(command --auto-complete ${COMP_WORDS[@]})
            COMPREPLY=($(compgen -W "${sonames}" -- ${cur}))
        fi
    }
    complete -F _command command

=head1 AUTHOR

Ivan Wills - (ivan.wills@gmail.com)

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2009 Ivan Wills (14 Mullion Close, Hornsby Heights, NSW Australia 2077).
All rights reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself. See L<perlartistic>.  This program is
distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=cut
