DB::DB called when any of the variables is true:

    $DB::trace, $DB::single, $DB::signal

And:

    Execution of your program reaches a point that can hold a breakpoint

DB::DB is not called when:

	Code is called from DB::DB
	sub has not 'is_debuggable' flag (all code compiled at DB has such flag)





There are some different context where DB::sub may be called or not.
You should keep these cases in mind:

The DB::sub is not called when you call a subroutine from DB:: namespace

	sdf {
		package Test;
		sub x1 {}
		sub x2{ x1() }  # Only here DB::sub is called
	}


	sub init {}

	sub DB {
		init();      # DB::sub not called
		Test::x1();  # DB::sub not called
		Test::x2();  # DB::sub not called
		...
	}



NEVER PASS DB:: GLOBALS AS ARGUMENTS TO SUBS
Because of the @_ has aliases to arguments

	sub test {
		$DB::single =  1;  # or call to sub which do this change
		print $_[0]; # Will print "1" instead of "0"
	}

	$DB::single =  0;
	test( $DB::single );

	# Example 2:
	sub test {
		$@ =  'Oops';
		my( $x ) =  @_;
		print $x; # Oops
	}
	$@ =  'Exception';
	test( $@ );


When you are in DB::sub
Frame for target subroutine is NOT created. It is when you pass control by the chain making `return &$DB::sub`. This is the good design to hide debugger frame from client's code. But you probably will have problem making call to some debugger's subs. The problem is the `caller` will show that call is maden from client's code instead of real source -- &DB::sub
Probably Perl should create origin frame before &DB::sub call and not create frames for any sub call from &DB::sub (to simplify code)
But it will be cool not create frame only for &$DB::sub sub call


When you do internal call to &subname from DB::sub the CORE::caller will see client's $file:$line and your &subname. You should check $DB::sub to see name for original subroutine

NOTE:
You can not do such thing:

    package Other;
    sub DB::DB {}
    sub DB::sub { &$DB::sub }

Because the &DB::sub is compiled at Other namespace the &$DB::sub will recursively call itself. So you **MUST** compile &DB::sub in the DB namespace to prevent that


BEWARE:
When you work with global variables in the debugger you affect user's globals.
So 'eval' that variable will see debugger's value instead of user's one
For example:

	# Code in the user's script
	$_ =  7;
	1; # Stopped here and the debugger is called

	# Code in the debugger:
	for( 1..3 ) {
		print DB::eval( '$_' ); # Will show 1,2,3 instead of expected 7,7,7
	}



NOTICE:
When you want to use this module with modules like Apache::DB you should be aware
that $DB::single = 1 does not work. Because after returning from module s sub
old value of $DB::single will be restored by &pop_frame. You should do instead:

    DB::state( 'stack' )->[ -2 ]{ single } =  1;



NOTICE:
It will be not possible to debug debugger if commands use package global
variables. Because of second debugger instance use same ::Commands package and
its variables. Think of this like second thread visit same sub while first
thread is paused.



BEWARE:
When you &DB::eval user code that code may change any global variables. We can
not take care about all of them. So we localize only those the debugger make
change. So you should be carefull when run userland code from debugger because
this code may change global variables. And the state you return to user will
be slightly different from that when you have stopped on breakpoint.
See also interesting case commit:035e182e4f.
