h1. NAME
Pod::POM::View::Confluence - Confluence view of a Pod Object Model
h1. SYNOPSIS
{noformat}
    use Pod::POM::View::Confluence;
    my $view = 'Pod::POM::View::Confluence';
    
    $pom->present($view);
{noformat}
h1. DESCRIPTION
_Confluence_ is an "entreprise wiki" published by Atlassian. Pages can be edited either in _Rich Text_ or _Wiki Markup_. See [http://www.atlassian.com/software/confluence/] for details.
This module provides a view for {{Pod::POM}} that outputs the information in the _Confluence_ _Wiki Markup_.
Use it like any other {{Pod::POM::View}} subclass.
Note that {{=for}} and {{=begin}} / {{=end}} block will not output anything, unless for format {{confluence}}.
h1. METHODS
Apart from the {{view_*}} methods (see [Pod::POM] for details), this module supports the two following methods:
new() Constructor.
view( $type, $node ) Return the given Pod::POM node as formatted by the View.
h1. AUTHOR
Philippe Bruhat (BooK), {{<book@cpan.org>}}
h1. BUGS
Please report any bugs or feature requests to {{bug-pod-pom-view-confluence at rt.cpan.org}}, or through the web interface at [http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Pod-POM-View-Confluence]. I will be notified, and then you'll automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.
h1. SUPPORT
You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.
{noformat}
    perldoc Pod::POM::View::Confluence
{noformat}
You can also look for information at:
* RT: CPAN's request tracker [http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Pod-POM-View-Confluence]
* AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation [http://annocpan.org/dist/Pod-POM-View-Confluence]
* CPAN Ratings [http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Pod-POM-View-Confluence]
* Search CPAN [http://search.cpan.org/dist/Pod-POM-View-Confluence]

h1. COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2008 Philippe Bruhat (BooK), all rights reserved.
h1. LICENSE
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
