
=head1 ManCen manual

The ManCen application is used to track cell centroids. The data gathered calculated then by
d2ras application.

The main actions are bound to the left mouse button. The actions sets and removes centroids,
which are marked as green ( by default) small circles. These data are stored in .cen files.

The program is capable of showing neigbour centroids, which are marked as red ( by default) crosses.
Settings that regulate this behaviour are found in "Edit/Preferences/General". 
The box "Display neighbour .cen" shows neighbour centroids ( if available).
The box "look .cen forward" toggles the lookup direction, forward or backward.

=head2 Calculations

ManCen simplifies the tracking of centroids through the series, trying to guess how do
centroids move. When it saves the centroids positions, it confronts neighbour centroids and current ones.
If the number of centroids not match, or if it fails to correspond the points, it warns the user 
about possible problems.

=head2 Productivity tips

To remove more than one cell at once, press Shift+right mouse button and drag. The points covered
by veil rectangle will be removed.

Space keyboard shortcut toggles same feature as "Edit/Preferences/General/Display neighbour .cen" box.

The arrow into the right corner of the toolbar shows the direction of the lookup.

The digits left to the arrow (X:Y) there shows number of centriods in current image ( A) and on the neighbour one ( B).

Keyboard shortcut 'x' performs same task as left mouse button on the working area.

To delete point through the series, right click on the centroid and choose "Delete point to the series end".

Cursor shape could be altered using "Edit/Preferences/Appearance/Default cursor shape" box.


