package Bencher::Manual::FAQ; # just to make PodWeaver happy

# DATE
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: FAQ for Bencher

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Bencher::Manual::FAQ - FAQ for Bencher

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 1.050 of Bencher::Manual::FAQ (from Perl distribution Bencher), released on 2020-06-18.

=head1 GENERAL

=head2 What is Bencher?

Bencher is a benchmark framework. It can be used to benchmark Perl code or
external commands.

=head2 Why should I use Bencher (instead of Benchmark, Dumbbench, ...)?

The main point of Bencher is making your benchmark codes more reusable. Your
benchmark codes are organized into participants and can be specified as
templates. These codes then can be combined (permuted) with multiple datasets
and can also be run using different perl versions and different module versions,
all with specifying just a command-line option. You can select which
participants or datasets or other permutation combinations to run. You can run
the codes with the good ol' L<Benchmark.pm|Benchmark> or using the default
L<Benchmark::Dumb>.

The results are put into a table data structure and can be formatted, split,
saved/sent to server, or post-processed in other ways.

There are also tools available to chart the results, embed the results into your
POD, and so on.

=head2 How do I use Bencher?

Bencher can be used via L<CLI|bencher> or as a C<Perl library|Bencher::Backend>.

See also extra CLI's in L<App::BencherUtils>.

=head2 What is a scenario?

=head2 What is a participant?

=head2 What is a dataset?

=head1 BENCHMARKING PERL CODE

=head2 How do I run a participant in a minimal environment?

Normally when you benchmark a perl code using Bencher, it is run in the same
process as Bencher framework (and the bencher CLI too, if you run Bencher from
the CLI) itself. In some cases this is not desirable, for example you might want
to run a perl code in absence of a module but said module is required and
already loaded by Bencher.

In these cases, you can use a "perl command-line" participant type instead of
"perl code" so that your code is run in its own perl interpreter process. For
example, instead of:

 participants => [
     # testing speed when no adapter has been configured
     {code_template => 'state $log = do { require Log::Any; Log::Any->get_logger }; $log->trace("foo")'},
 ]

you write:

 participants => [
     # testing speed when no adapter has been configured
     {perl_cmdline_template => ['-MLog::Any', '-e', 'my $log = Log::Any->get_logger; $log->trace("foo") for 1..1_000_000']},
 ]

Note that when using "perl command-line" participant, the overhead of starting
the perl interpreter and compiling your script is included in the benchmark
time, so you might want to make that overhead relatively small compared to the
time of running your code (hence the million-times loop in the second example
above).

=head1 MULTIPLE PERLS

=head1 MULTIPLE MODULE VERSIONS

=head2 How do I permute module versions when I use "perl command-line" participant type?

You can set module path in I<PERL5OPT> and permute using C<env_hashes>. Example:

 env_hashes => [
     {PERL5OPT=>"-Ipath1"},
     {PERL5OPT=>"-Ipath2"},
 ],
 participants => [
     {perl_cmdline => ['-e', 'do_something()']},
 ],

=head1 BENCHMARKING EXTERNAL COMMANDS

=head1 BENCHMARKING PERL COMMANDS

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Bencher>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Bencher>.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Bencher>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<Bencher::Manual::*>

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015 by perlancar@cpan.org.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
