package Bencher::Manual::HowTo; # just to make PodWeaver happy

# AUTHORITY
# DATE
our $DIST = 'Bencher'; # DIST
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: How-to guides for Bencher

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Bencher::Manual::HowTo - How-to guides for Bencher

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 1.062.2 of Bencher::Manual::HowTo (from Perl distribution Bencher), released on 2022-11-30.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Keywords: cookbook

=head1 TOPIC: GENERAL

=head1 TOPIC: MODULES

=head2 Update all modules that are used by participants

 % bencher -m Scenario --list-participant-modules | cpanm -n

This can be used to make sure that you are benchmarking the latest version of
each module.

Keywords: tip

=head1 TOPIC: RUNNER

=head2 Picking a runner

By default, L<bencher> runs the benchmark with L<Dumbbench> which has the
advantages like fewer required iterations or outliers exclusion. However, you
can also use the core module L<Benchmark> (Benchmark.pm) as the runner. To
select a runner:

 % bencher -m Scenario --runner Benchmark       ;# select Benchmark.pm
 % bencher -m Scenario --runner Benchmark::Dumb ;# select Dumbbench, the default

If you want to use the default Dumbbench runner, but want to format the result
like Benchmark.pm, use the C<--render-as-benchmark-pm> option (since 1.056):

 % bencher -m Scenario --render-as-benchmark-pm

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Bencher>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Bencher>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<Bencher::Manual::*>

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTING


To contribute, you can send patches by email/via RT, or send pull requests on
GitHub.

Most of the time, you don't need to build the distribution yourself. You can
simply modify the code, then test via:

 % prove -l

If you want to build the distribution (e.g. to try to install it locally on your
system), you can install L<Dist::Zilla>,
L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>,
L<Pod::Weaver::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>, and sometimes one or two other
Dist::Zilla- and/or Pod::Weaver plugins. Any additional steps required beyond
that are considered a bug and can be reported to me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2022, 2021, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015 by perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Bencher>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
