=head1 FTN-Database To Do


=head2 General

Add a note to documentaion regarding the special database name for SQLite of
":memory:" which enables usage of an in memory database.


=head2 Testing

Add extended testing of the databases by writing and reading data. Use the 
module Test::Database in the test scripts in order to do the extended testing
in whatever database services are available. Limit those to just SQLite, MySQL,
and PostgreSQL? Start the numbering for them at "11". If there ends up being a
need to do some specific preliminary testing prior to doing the extended testing
scripts, number that script as "10-".


=head2 FTN::Database

The option used to define which type of database to use does not currently do
any error checking on that type; the script will fail if an correct DBD name
is used. Get & use a list of the currently installed or available DBI DBD
modules? If do not explicitly do such error or other checking, document the
standard names for DBI DBD modules like SQlite (default), mysql, and postgresql.

The use of special characters like periods in table names is a more general
issue where it is not a good idea to use them at all. Redo the comments in
scripts and modules regarding that, to generalize it. (Derive function to
validate it and add that to the FTN::Database module?)


=head2 FTN::Database::Nodelist

Need to update the definition of the timestamp field, and/or what the default
for it is. Currently "now" is the default, but that results in the word 'now'
being inserted into the field instead of a date/time timestamp (at least, in
a PostgreSQL database). Check how the various databases handle timestamp type
fields and add code to set the definition of the field dpending on that.


=head2 FTN:Database::Forum

The FTN attributes information intended to be held in the I<attrib> field comes
from a two byte, 16 bit integer. In a MySQL database it could be defined using
a SET datatype but other database servers do not support that by default, so
defaulting to defining it as an integer.


=head2 FTN:Database::Echolist

Create an FTN Database module for echolists which: Defines an Echolist table,
default name "Echolist"? Basic table would consist of (at least) the following
fields: name, description, source. Also include fields like: moderator?

=head1 SEE ALSO

 L<FTN::Database>, L<FTN::Database::Forum>, L<FTN::Database::Nodelist>


=head1 AUTHOR

Robert James Clay, C<< <jame at rocasa.us> >>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2013 Robert James Clay, all rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
