package Data::MuForm::Manual;
# ABSTRACT: MuForm manual



1;

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Data::MuForm::Manual - MuForm manual

=head1 VERSION

version 0.04

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the Data::MuForm manual.

Data::MuForm performs validation and is a framework for processing
forms.

One of the main goals of MuForm is flexibility. There are many customizable
methods and transforms, and a number of official hooks for changing class behavior.
In addition, since MuForm is written in Moo, you can override almost everything.

You can split the pieces of your forms up into logical parts and compose
complete forms from MuForm classes, roles, fields, collections of
validations, transformations and type constraints.
You can write custom methods to process forms, add any attribute you like,
and use method modifiers.  MuForm validators/forms are Perl classes, so there's
a lot of flexibility in what you can do.

=head1 SECTIONS

=head2 L<Data::MuForm::Manual::FormHandlerDiff>

Some of the differences between FormHandler and MuForm.

=head2 L<Data::MuForm::Manual::Intro>

Creating MuForm validators or forms and interfacing them
with your controllers.

=head2 L<Data::MuForm::Manual::Fields>

Organized list of MuForm fields, with links to specific
documentation.

=head2 L<Data::MuForm::Manual::Hooks>

Documents the standard places to override form processing.

=head2 L<Data::MuForm::Manual::Defaults>

Description of the various ways of setting defaults.

=head2 L<Data::MuForm::Manual::Transformations>

Transformation of input and value attributes at various points in
the validation and update process.

=head2 L<Data::MuForm::Manual::Validation>

Validation of fields

=head2 L<Data::MuForm::Manual::Errors>

Errors: setting them, getting them.

=head2 L<Data::MuForm::Manual::Rendering>

How to render and write your own custom rendering code.

=head2 L<Data::MuForm::Manual::Testing>

Test your forms

=head2 L<Data::MuForm::Manual::Cookbook>

'Howto' recipes

=head2 L<Data::MuForm::Manual::Reference>

Quick reference of MuForm interface

=head1 SUPPORT

IRC:

   Join #formhandler on irc.perl.org

Mailing list:

  http://groups.google.com/group/formhandler

=head1 AUTHOR

gshank: Gerda Shank <gshank@cpan.org>

=head1 AUTHOR

Gerda Shank

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017 by Gerda Shank.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
