=head1 NAME

Syntax::Kamelon - A versatile and fully programmable textual content parser that is extremely well suited for syntax highlighting and code folding 

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Syntax::Kamelon;
 
 my @attributes = Syntax::Kamelon->AvailableAttributes;
 my %formtab = ();
 for (@attributes) {
    $formtab{$_} = "<font class=\"$_\">"
 }
 
 my $textfilter = "[%~ text FILTER html FILTER replace('\\040', '&nbsp;') FILTER replace('\\t', '&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;') ~%]";
 my $hl = new Syntax::Kamelon(
    xmlfolder => $xmldir,
    noindex => 1,
    formatter => ['Base',
       textfilter => \$textfilter,
       format_table => \%formtab,
       newline => "</br>\n",
       tagend => '</font>',
    ],
 );
 while (my $in = <IFILE>) {
   $hl->Parse($in);
 }
 print $hl->Format;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Kamelon is based on the syntax highlighting and code folding algorithms used in the Kate texteditor
of the KDE desktop. It replaces and supercedes Syntax::Highlight::Engine::Kate.

B<This is a rewrite> and not backwards compatible with Syntax::Highlight::Engine::Kate.

Instead of using plugin modules it loads Kate's syntax
highlight definition xml files directly. That makes development and testing a lot easier. It
also opens up a new field of applications like creating your own highlight definitions to 
neatly format your reports. Tons of bugs have been removed. Testing has been redesigned. 
It runs about four times faster than version 0.10 and is up to spec with the latest Kate 
highlight definitions.

=head1 OPTIONS

Kamelons' constructor is called with a paired list of options as parameters. You can use
the following options.

=over 4

=item B<commands> => ref to hash

Specify commands to execute upon a specific match. Example:

 mycommand => sub { my $match = shift; return '' }

You can specify the command in the rules of your own syntax xml file.
Kamelon will give the matched text to your sub as parameter and will parse whatever
your sub returns. Make it always return at least an empty string.

=item B<formatter> => ['Name', @options],

A formatter can be any object that inherits B<Syntax::Kamelon::Format::Base> and 
lives in B<Syntax::Kamelon::Format::Name>. By default 'Base' without options is loaded.
This is convenient if you only use B<ParseRaw>.

See also B<Syntax::Kamelon::Format::Base>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Format::ANSI>, B<Syntax::Kamelon::Format::HTML4>.

=item B<indexfile> => filename

Specifies the filename where Kamelon stores information about available syntax definitions.

By default it points to 'indexrc' in the B<xmlfolder>. If the file does not exist Kamelon will 
load all xml files in the B<xmlfolder> and attempt to create the indexfile.

Once the indexfile has been created it becomes static. If you add a syntax definition 
XML file to the B<xmlfolder> it will no longer be recognized. Delete the indexfile and reload
Kamelon to fix that. 

See also B<Syntax::Kamelon::Indexer>

=item B<logcall> => ref to sub

By default Kamelon writes all errors to STERR. 

=item B<noindex> => boolean

By default 0. If you set this option Kamelon will ignore the existence of an indexfile
and manually build the index, without saving it. But it gives
you the liberty of adding and removing syntax highlight definition files.

This option comes with a considerable startup penalty.

See also B<Syntax::Kamelon::Indexer>

=item B<syntax> => string

Specify the syntax definition you want to use. If you do not specify this option
Kamelon will start in blank mode. It the B<Highlight> and B<HighlightAndFormat> methods
will allow text to pass without any highlighting being done.

=item B<verbose> => boolean

By default 0. If you set it Kamelon will happily complain about all integrity errors
it finds in syntax xml files. Otherwise it will only complain and crunch about the ones
it cannot overcome.

=item B<xmlfolder> => folder

This is the place where Kamelon looks for syntax highlight definition XML files. By
default it searches @INC for 'Syntax/Kamelon/XML'. Here you find the
XML files used in the Kate text editor. They are specially crafted for this module.

See also B<Syntax::Kamelon::Indexer>

=back

=head1 PUBLIC METHODS

=over 4

=item B<AvailableAttributes>

Returns a list of all available attribute tags. Can also be called before initializing Kamelon.

=item B<AvailableSyntaxes>

Returns a list of all available syntax definitions.

=item B<ClearLexers>

Empties the pool of loaded lexers. Every called lexer will be loaded from scratch.

=item B<Column>

Returns the column position in the line that is currently highlighted.

=item B<FirstNonSpace>(I<$string>);

Returns true if the current line did not contain a non-spatial character so far and the first 
character in B<$string> is a non spatial character.

=item B<Format>

Calls the B<Format> method of the currently loaded formatter and returns the result.

=item B<Formatter>

Returns a reference to the formatter object.

=item B<GetIndexer>

Returns the Indexer object.

=item B<GetLexer>(I<$syntax>);

Returns the lexer data structure from the pool of loaded lexers. If it is
not found it will create and return it.

=item B<IsDeliminator>(I<$char>);

Returns true if I<$char> is a deliminator.

=item B<LastcharBoundary>

Returns true if the last character that was parsed was a word boundary.

=item B<LastcharDeliminator>

Returns true if the last character that was parsed was a deliminator.

=item B<LastChar>

Returns the last character that was parsed.

=item B<LineNumber>(I<$number>);

Sets and returns the line number of the next line that is to be parsed.

=item B<LineStart>

Returns true if the parser is at the beginning of a line.

=item B<LogCallGet>;

Returns a reference to the anonymous sub that handles Warnings. See also the B<locall> option.

=item B<LogCallSet>(I<$anonsub>);

Sets the anonymous sub that handles Warnings. See also the B<locall> option.

=item B<LogWarning>(I<$message>);

Send a message to the warning mechanism of Kamelon.

=item B<Parse>(I<$text>);

Parses I<$text> and returns a formatted text.

=item B<ParseRaw>(I<$text>);

Parses I<$text> and returns a paired list of text fragments and the format information from the formatters B<FormatTable>.

=item B<Reset>

Clears all buffers and resets Kamelon to beginning state.

=item B<StateCompare>(I<$state>);

Returns true if the current stack is equal to a previously saved $state. $state contains a reference to a list.

=item B<StateGet>

Returns a copy of the stack in an array.

=item B<StateSet>(I<@state>);

Set the state to a previously saved state.

=item B<SuggestSyntax>(I<$filename>);

Tries to come up with a suitable lexer for $filename. It matches the
extension of the file against the extension database held by the Indexer.
Returns undef if nothing is found.

=item B<Syntax>(I<$syntax>);

Switches to the lexer in $syntax and performs a reset.

=back

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

All the people who wrote Kate and the syntax highlight xml files.

=head1 AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT

This module is written and maintained by:

Hans Jeuken < hanje at cpan dot org>

Copyright (c) 2017 - 2023 by Hans Jeuken, all rights reserved.

Published under the same lincense as Perl.

=head1 BUGS, ERRORS and DISCLAIMER

We know for a fact that the supplied xml files from Kate do not all produce accurate results.
Most of them do though.

There are a few instances (Lilypond we know of) where Perl treats regular expressions slightly
different from Kate. This became obvious as of Perl 5.26.

We have also chosen to not integrate some of Kate's tag features. We think they are a poor design choice.
Kate allows you to specify tags like 'bold', 'italic' or a colour. We have foregone those. So for some 
xml definition files you will get different output when comparing it with a Kate editor window.

If you bump into one of these, unfortunately you are on your own.

What you can do is use your own set of xml definitions in a folder of your choice.
Then edit the xml to your liking.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Syntax::Kamelon::Builder>, L<Syntax::Kamelon::Debugger>, L<Syntax::Kamelon::Diagnostics>,
L<Syntax::Kamelon::Indexer>, L<Syntax::Kamelon::XMLData>, L<Syntax::Kamelon::Format::Base>, 
L<Syntax::Kamelon::Format::ANSI>, L<Syntax::Kamelon::Format::HTML4>, L<Syntax::Kamelon::Syntaxes>.

=cut

