=head1 Refactoring Alzabo's _make_dbh() for Easier DBI Connection Configuration

I have factored out the relevant code from
Alzabo::Driver::(MySQL|Postgres)::_make_dbh(). I preserved the usage
of Params::Validate but replaced the use of Exception::Class with
plain Perl die calls. The module is standalone and is called
DBIx::DBH. 


=head1 ABSTRACT

Composing a syntactically valid DBI DSN is a bit time-consuming and
troublesome. Part of the reason for this is that the syntax varies from
driver to driver. Another reason is that the DSN string is compound
data, representing the complex of a minimum of 3 entities. Since 2001,
3 modules have entered CPAN with the sole and express intent to store
DBI database connection information and use this information to
provide DBI database handles with ease. However, none of these modules
assemble the components of the DSN string into a DSN string --- they
all expect completely perfect DSN strings, a non-trivial task.

Recently, I noticed that Alzabo's polymorphic _make_dbh() method could
assemble syntactically correct DSN strings from simple-to-supply
scalar data items for both Postgres and MySQL. In other words, instead
of having to provide a well-formed DSN string like this:

 dbi:mysql:database=mysqldb;host=rt.tg.allswell.com;port=3312;mysql_local_infile=1

we leave the hard work to _make_dbh by calling it like this

 $s->_make_dbh(
   name => 'mysqldb', 
   host => 'rt.tg.allswell.com', 
   port => 3312,
   user => 'carlos',
   pass => 'santana',
   mysql_local_infile => 1
 );

The C<_make_dbh()> usage is much easier to read. And much easier to
create directly from HTTP form data or configuration files. No doubt
everyone has their pet _make_dbh() in the tech stack at their
company. 

=head1 The refactoring

The module DBIx::DBH represents my refactoring of Dave's code. The
hash elements have slightly different naming:

=over

=item * the database driver must be supplied

The C<driver> key is used to supply the database

=item * the name key is dbname

=item * the pass key is passed

=back

Another difference is that _make_dbh() called C<< DBI->connect() >> with a
fixed set of DBI attributes. The refactoring allows for any attributes
to be used, both from DBI and from the driver's driver.

=head1 Database Connection Modules, Past and Present

The very first module on CPAN for database connection may have been
C<DBIx::Password> by Brian Aker.  I sent him patches so he could
return a hash of data or array of data for use with supra-DBI tools
like L<Alzabo> and L<DBix::AnyDBD> but he refused them. L<Ima::DBI>
was also available around this time, but it simply slipped my mind.

So in 2002, I created DBIx::Connect, a Perl module which would 
use L<AppConfig> configuration files to provide either DBI database handles
or a data structure with connection information. This was nice because I could
flit from database tool to database tool but only have to catalog my
connection information once.

However, DBIx::Connect was based on AppConfig, which was proving itself
hard to use - it was not easy to have global data and overwrite it
in sub-blocks. I noted these shortcomings here:

   http://perlmonks.org/?node_id=299749

and based on suggestions rewrote DBIx::Connect from the bottom up using
Sam Tregar's excellent L<Config::ApacheFormat>. Now, I could do
anything with config files that you could do with an Apache one. Also, 
I had much better validation of the config file.

L<Config::DBI> is OK except for two things

=over

=item 1  DSN strings are entered as one composite value. 

When using an Apache-like configuration file, one thing you find
immensely useful is the ability to build up your data in layers,
inheriting and over-writing values as necessary.

It is difficult to create such an inheritance hiearchy
describing each database when the DSN is specified as a string.

=item 2 Config::DBI has rigid expectations of the config file

Software organizations should be entitled to develop configuration
files in any manner they desire. Config::DBI expects the file to have
a certain structure which may not accord with how the organization
wants to describe their database setup

=back

The way around both of these problems was handled by Alzabo's
make_dbh() function a long time ago. To handle item 1, you simply run
through the hash, looking for keys that can be used in the DSN and
assemble them into the DSN string. To handle item 2, you simply expect
a hash whose keys are limited to the values in the DBI and driver
documentation. How a particular software organization transforms their
internal configuration information to this generic hash is their concern.



