=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Tracker::HTTP - HTTP/HTTPS BitTorrent Tracker Protocol

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::BitTorrent::Tracker::HTTP;

    my $tracker = Net::BitTorrent::Tracker::HTTP->new(
        url => 'https://tracker.example.com/announce'
    );

    # Perform announce
    $tracker->perform_announce({
        infohash   => $ih,
        peer_id    => $id,
        port       => 6881,
        downloaded => 0,
        uploaded   => 0,
        left       => 1024
    }, sub ($res) {
        say 'Interval: ' . $res->{interval};
    });

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Net::BitTorrent::Tracker::HTTP> implements the original BitTorrent tracker protocol over HTTP and HTTPS. It handles
URL encoding of binary infohashes and parsing of bencoded responses.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<new( %params )>

Creates a new HTTP tracker object.

    my $tracker = Net::BitTorrent::Tracker::HTTP->new( url => $url );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<url>

The tracker announce URL.

=back

=head2 C<perform_announce( \%params, [$callback] )>

Sends an announce request to the HTTP tracker.

    $tracker->perform_announce( \%params, sub ($res) { ... } );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<\%params>

Standard announce parameters. Automatically handles compact peer lists (IPv4 and IPv6) and supports asynchronous mode
if C<$params->{ua}> is provided (e.g., an instance of L<Mojo::UserAgent>).

=item C<$callback> - optional

Called with the parsed response hash.

=back

=head2 C<perform_scrape( \@infohashes, [$callback] )>

Sends a scrape request to the HTTP tracker.

    $tracker->perform_scrape( \@ihs, sub ($res) { ... } );

Executes a tracker scrape (B<BEP 48>) by converting the C<announce> URL to a C<scrape> URL and requesting statistics
for the provided hashes.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<\@infohashes>

List of infohashes to scrape.

=item C<$callback> - optional

Called with the scrape results.

=back

=head2 C<build_announce_url( $params )>

Generates the full announce URL with query parameters.

    my $url = $tracker->build_announce_url( \%params );

Correctly percent-encodes the binary C<info_hash> and C<peer_id> fields.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$params>

Hash reference of announce parameters.

=back

=head2 C<build_scrape_url( $infohashes )>

Generates the scrape URL for the given infohashes.

    my $url = $tracker->build_scrape_url( \@ihs );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$infohashes>

Array reference of binary infohashes.

=back

=head2 C<parse_response( $data )>

Decodes and parses a tracker response.

    my $dict = $tracker->parse_response( $raw_data );

Automatically expands compact peer lists into user-friendly hashrefs.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$data>

The raw bencoded response string.

=back

=head1 SPECIFICATIONS

=over

=item * B<BEP 03>: The BitTorrent Protocol (HTTP Tracker)

=item * B<BEP 23>: Tracker Returns Compact Peer Lists

=item * B<BEP 07>: IPv6 Support (C<peers6> field)

=item * B<BEP 48>: Tracker Scrape Convention

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson - L<https://github.com/sanko>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2008-2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
