=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Tracker::UDP - UDP BitTorrent Tracker Protocol (BEP 15)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::BitTorrent::Tracker::UDP;

    my $tracker = Net::BitTorrent::Tracker::UDP->new(
        url => 'udp://tracker.openbittorrent.com:80/announce'
    );

    # Announce
    $tracker->perform_announce({
        infohash   => $bin_ih,
        peer_id    => $my_id,
        port       => 6881,
        downloaded => 0,
        uploaded   => 0,
        left       => 1024
    }, sub ($res) {
        say 'Peers: ' . join(', ', map { $_->{ip} } @{$res->{peers}});
    });

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Net::BitTorrent::Tracker::UDP> implements the lightweight UDP Tracker Protocol (BEP 15). UDP is the preferred
transport for BitTorrent trackers as it significantly reduces overhead on the tracker server compared to HTTP.

=head2 BitTorrent v2 Support

This module is BEP 52 compliant. It handles 32-byte SHA-256 infohashes by dynamically adjusting the binary structure of
outgoing messages or by providing truncated/hashed 20-byte identifiers where necessary for legacy compatibility.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<perform_announce( \%params, [$callback] )>

Sends an announce request to the UDP tracker.

    $tracker->perform_announce( \%params, sub ($res) { ... } );

This method handles connection ID acquisition and retransmissions automatically.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<\%params>

Standard announce parameters (infohash, peer_id, port, uploaded, downloaded, left, event).

=item C<$callback> - optional

Called with the parsed response hash containing C<interval>, C<leechers>, C<seeders>, and C<peers>.

=back

=head2 C<perform_scrape( \@infohashes, [$callback] )>

Sends a scrape request to the UDP tracker.

    $tracker->perform_scrape( \@ihs, sub ($res) { ... } );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<\@infohashes>

List of binary infohashes to scrape.

=item C<$callback> - optional

Called with the scrape results.

=back

=head2 C<tick( )>

Performs periodic maintenance.

    $tracker->tick( 0.1 );

This method handles incoming packets and retransmissions for pending requests.

=head2 C<receive_data( $data )>

Processes an incoming UDP packet.

    $tracker->receive_data( $raw_packet );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$data>

The raw packet payload.

=back

=head2 C<url( )>

Returns the tracker URL.

=head1 Specifications

=over

=item * B<BEP 15>: UDP Tracker Protocol

=item * B<BEP 52>: The BitTorrent Protocol v2 (UDP extensions)

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson - L<https://github.com/sanko>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2008-2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
