=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

subst - Greple module for text search and substitution

=head1 VERSION

Version 2.3702

=head1 SYNOPSIS

greple -Msubst --dict I<dictionary> [ options ]

  Dictionary:
    --dict      dictionary file
    --dictdata  dictionary data
    --dictpair  dictionary entry pair

  Check:
    --check=[ng,ok,any,outstand,all,none]
    --select=N
    --linefold
    --stat
    --with-stat
    --stat-style=[default,dict]
    --stat-item={match,expect,number,ok,ng,dict}=[0,1]
    --subst
    --[no-]warn-overlap
    --[no-]warn-include

  File Update:
    --diff
    --diffcmd command
    --create
    --replace
    --overwrite

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This B<greple> module supports check and substitution of text files
based on dictionary data.

Dictionary file is given by B<--dict> option and each line contains
matching pattern and expected string pairs.

    greple -Msubst --dict DICT

If the dictionary file contains following data:

    colou?r      color
    cent(er|re)  center

above command finds the first pattern which does not match the second
string, that is "colour" and "centre" in this case.

In practice, the last two elements of a space-separated string are
treated as a pattern and a replacement string, respectively.

Dictionary data can also be written separated by C<//> as follows:

    colou?r      //  color
    cent(er|re)  //  center

There must be spaces before and after the C<//>.  In this format,
strings before and after it are treated as a pattern and replacement
string, rather than last two element.  Leading spaces and spaces
before and after C<//> are ignored, but all other whitespace is valid.

You can use same file by B<greple>'s B<-f> option and string after
C<//> is ignored as a comment in that case.

    greple -f DICT ...

Option B<--dictdata> can be used to provide dictionary data in the
command line.

    greple -Msubst \
           --dictdata $'colou?r color\ncent(er|re) center\n'

Option B<--dictpair> can be used to provide raw dictionary entries in
the command line.  In this case, no processing is done regarding
whitespace, comments, or DEFINE expansion.

    greple -Msubst \
           --dictpair 'colou?r' color \
           --dictpair 'cent(er|re)' center

Dictionary entry starting with a sharp sign (C<#>) is a comment and
ignored.

=head2 DEFINE

You can define a named regex pattern in the dictionary file using the
Perl's DEFINE syntax:

    (?(DEFINE)(?<name>pattern))

The defined pattern can be referenced in the dictionary entries using
C<(?&name)> syntax.

    (?(DEFINE)(?<digit>\d+))
    (?&digit)/(?&digit)/(?&digit)  //  YYYY/MM/DD

You can define multiple patterns and use them in combination.  The
pattern definition must appear before its reference.

=head2 Overlapped pattern

When the matched string is same or shorter than previously matched
string by another pattern, it is simply ignored (B<--no-warn-include>
by default).  So, if you have to declare conflicted patterns, place
the longer pattern earlier.

If the matched string overlaps with previously matched string, it is
warned (B<--warn-overlap> by default) and ignored.

=head2 Terminal color

This version uses L<Getopt::EX::termcolor> module.  It sets option
B<--light-screen> or B<--dark-screen> depending on the terminal on
which the command run, or B<TERM_BGCOLOR> environment variable.

Some terminals (eg: "Apple_Terminal" or "iTerm") are detected
automatically and no action is required.  Otherwise set
B<TERM_BGCOLOR> environment to #000000 (black) to #FFFFFF (white)
digit depending on terminal background color.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 7

=item B<--dict>=I<file>

Specify dictionary file.

=item B<--dictdata>=I<data>

Specify dictionary data by text.

=item B<--dictpair> I<pattern> I<replacement>

Specify dictionary entry pair.  This option takes two parameters.  The
first is a pattern and the second is a substitution string.

=item B<--check>=C<outstand>|C<ng>|C<ok>|C<any>|C<all>|C<none>

Option B<--check> takes argument from C<ng>, C<ok>, C<any>,
C<outstand>, C<all> and C<none>.

With default value C<outstand>, command will show information about
both expected and unexpected words only when unexpected word was found
in the same file.

With value C<ng>, command will show information about unexpected
words.  With value C<ok>, you will get information about expected
words.  Both with value C<any>.

Value C<all> and C<none> make sense only when used with B<--stat>
option, and display information about never matched pattern.

=item B<--select>=I<N>

Select I<N>th entry from the dictionary.  Argument is interpreted by
L<Getopt::EX::Numbers> module.  Range can be defined like
B<--select>=C<1:3,7:9>.  You can get numbers by B<--stat> option.

=item B<--linefold>

If the target data is folded in the middle of text, use B<--linefold>
option.  It creates regex patterns which matches string spread across
lines.  Substituted text does not include newline, though.  Because it
confuses regex behavior somewhat, avoid to use if possible.

=item B<--stat>

=item B<--with-stat>

Print statistical information.  Works with B<--check> option.

Option B<--with-stat> print statistics after normal output, while
B<--stat> print only statistics.

=item B<--stat-style>=C<default>|C<dict>

Using B<--stat-style=dict> option with B<--stat> and B<--check=any>,
you can get dictionary style output for your working document.

=item B<--stat-item> I<item>=[0,1]

Specify which item is shown up in stat information.  Default values
are:

    match=1
    expect=1
    number=1
    ng=1
    ok=1
    dict=0

If you don't need to see pattern field, use like this:

    --stat-item match=0

Multiple parameters can be set at once:

    --stat-item match=number=0,ng=1,ok=1

=item B<--subst>

Substitute unexpected matched pattern to expected string.  Newline
character in the matched string is ignored.  Pattern without
replacement string is not changed.

=item B<--[no-]warn-overlap>

Warn overlapped pattern.
Default on.

=item B<--[no-]warn-include>

Warn included pattern.
Default off.

=back

=head2 FILE UPDATE OPTIONS

=over 7

=item B<--diff>

=item B<--diffcmd>=I<command>

Option B<--diff> produce diff output of original and converted text.

Specify diff command name used by B<--diff> option.  Default is "diff
-u".

=item B<--create>

Create new file and write the result.  Suffix ".new" is appended to
original filename.

=item B<--replace>

Replace the target file by converted result.  Original file is renamed
to backup name with ".bak" suffix.

=item B<--overwrite>

Overwrite the target file by converted result with no backup.

=back

=head1 DICTIONARY

This module includes example dictionaries.  They are installed share
directory and accessed by B<--exdict> option.

    greple -Msubst --exdict jtca-katakana-guide-3.dict

=over 7

=item B<--exdict> I<dictionary>

Use I<dictionary> flie in the distribution as a dictionary file.

=item B<--exdictdir>

Show dictionary directory.

=item B<--exdict> jtca-katakana-guide-3.dict

=item B<--jtca-katakana-guide>

Created from following guideline document.

    外来語（カタカナ）表記ガイドライン 第3版
    制定：2015年8月
    発行：2015年9月
    一般財団法人テクニカルコミュニケーター協会 
    Japan Technical Communicators Association
    https://jtca.org/tcwp/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/katakana_guide_3_20171222.pdf

=item B<--jtca>

Customized B<--jtca-katakana-guide>.  Original dictionary is
automatically generated from published data.  This dictionary is
customized for practical use.

=item B<--exdict> jtf-style-guide-3.dict

=item B<--jtf-style-guide>

Created from following guideline document.

    JTF日本語標準スタイルガイド（翻訳用）
    第3.0版
    2019年8月20日
    一般社団法人 日本翻訳連盟（JTF）
    翻訳品質委員会
    https://www.jtf.jp/jp/style_guide/pdf/jtf_style_guide.pdf

=item B<--jtf>

Customized B<--jtf-style-guide>.  Original dictionary is automatically
generated from published data.  This dictionary is customized for
practical use.

=item B<--exdict> sccc2.dict

=item B<--sccc2>

Dictionary used for "C/C++ セキュアコーディング 第2版" published in
2014.

    https://www.jpcert.or.jp/securecoding_book_2nd.html

=item B<--exdict> ms-style-guide.dict

=item B<--ms-style-guide>

Dictionary generated from Microsoft localization style guide.

    https://www.microsoft.com/ja-jp/language/styleguides

Data is generated from this article:

    https://www.atmarkit.co.jp/news/200807/25/microsoft.html

=item B<--microsoft>

Customized B<--ms-style-guide>.  Original dictionary is automatically
generated from published data.  This dictionary is customized for
practical use.

Amendment dictionary can be found
L<here|https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/greple-subst/blob/master/share/ms-amend.dict>.
Please raise an issue or send a pull-request if you have request to update.

=back

=head1 JAPANESE

This module is originaly made for Japanese text editing support.

=head2 KATAKANA

Japanese KATAKANA word have a lot of variants to describe same word,
so unification is important but it's quite tiresome work.  In the next
example,

    イ[エー]ハトー?([ヴブボ]ォ?)  //  イーハトーヴォ

left pattern matches all following words.

    イエハトブ
    イーハトヴ
    イーハトーヴ
    イーハトーヴォ
    イーハトーボ
    イーハトーブ

This module helps to detect and correct them.

=head1 INSTALL

=head2 CPANMINUS

    $ cpanm App::Greple::subst

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/greple>

L<https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/greple-subst>

L<https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/greple-update>

L<https://www.jtca.org/standardization/katakana_guide_3_20171222.pdf>

L<https://www.jtf.jp/jp/style_guide/styleguide_top.html>,
L<https://www.jtf.jp/jp/style_guide/pdf/jtf_style_guide.pdf>

L<https://www.microsoft.com/ja-jp/language/styleguides>,
L<https://www.atmarkit.co.jp/news/200807/25/microsoft.html>

L<文化庁 国語施策・日本語教育 国語施策情報 内閣告示・内閣訓令 外来語の表記|https://www.bunka.go.jp/kokugo_nihongo/sisaku/joho/joho/kijun/naikaku/gairai/index.html>

L<https://qiita.com/kaz-utashiro/items/85add653a71a7e01c415>

L<イーハトーブ|https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E3%82%A4%E3%83%BC%E3%83%8F%E3%83%88%E3%83%BC%E3%83%96>

=head1 AUTHOR

Kazumasa Utashiro

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright ©︎ 2017-2025 Kazumasa Utashiro.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
