=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Peer - Individual Peer Connection & State Tracking

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::BitTorrent::Types qw[:encryption];

    # Usually managed automatically by Net::BitTorrent::Torrent
    my $peer = Net::BitTorrent::Peer->new(
        protocol   => $handler,
        torrent    => $torrent,
        transport  => $tcp_transport,
        ip         => '1.2.3.4',
        port       => 6881,
        encryption => ENCRYPTION_REQUIRED
    );

    # Access transport layer
    my $transport = $peer->transport;

    # Manual choking control
    $peer->unchoke( );

    # Check peer state
    say 'Peer is interested' if $peer->peer_interested;
    say 'Download rate: ' . ($peer->rate_down / 1024) . ' KB/s';

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Net::BitTorrent::Peer> represents a single connection to a remote BitTorrent client. It maintains the
choking/interested state machine and handles all message routing for a specific neighbor.

=head2 Reputation & Security

This class implements peer reputation tracking to protect the swarm from malicious or buggy clients:

=over

=item * Peers start with a reputation of 100.

=item * Providing a verified piece increases reputation by 1.

=item * Providing a corrupt piece (failed hash) decreases reputation by 20.

=item * If reputation falls to B<20 or below>, the peer is automatically disconnected and blacklisted for the session.

=item * The score is capped only by the number of successful transfers (can exceed 100).

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<new( %params )>

Creates a new Peer instance.

    my $peer = Net::BitTorrent::Peer->new(
        protocol   => $handler,
        torrent    => $torrent,
        transport  => $tcp_transport,
        ip         => '1.2.3.4',
        port       => 6881,
        encryption => ENCRYPTION_REQUIRED
    );

This method initializes a new peer connection manager.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<protocol>

An instance of L<Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::PeerHandler>.

=item C<torrent>

An instance of L<Net::BitTorrent::Torrent> this peer belongs to.

=item C<transport>

An instance of L<Net::BitTorrent::Transport::TCP> or L<Net::uTP::Connection>.

=item C<ip>

The IP address of the peer.

=item C<port>

The port of the peer.

=item C<encryption> - optional

Connection security policy (C<ENCRYPTION_NONE>, C<ENCRYPTION_PREFERRED>, C<ENCRYPTION_REQUIRED>). Defaults to
C<ENCRYPTION_PREFERRED>.

=back

=head2 C<unchoke( )>

Unchokes the peer.

    $peer->unchoke();

This method sends an C<UNCHOKE> message to the peer, allowing them to request blocks.

=head2 C<choke( )>

Chokes the peer.

    $peer->choke();

This method sends a C<CHOKE> message to the peer, preventing them from requesting blocks.

=head2 C<interested( )>

Expresses interest in the peer.

    $peer->interested();

This method sends an C<INTERESTED> message to the peer.

=head2 C<not_interested( )>

Expresses lack of interest in the peer.

    $peer->not_interested();

This method sends a C<NOT_INTERESTED> message to the peer.

=head2 C<request( $index, $begin, $len )>

Requests a block of data from the peer.

    $peer->request( 0, 0, 16384 );

This method sends a C<REQUEST> message for a specific block within a piece.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$index>

The zero-based piece index.

=item C<$begin>

The byte offset within the piece.

=item C<$len>

The number of bytes to request.

=back

=head2 C<send_suggest( $index )>

Sends a SUGGEST message (BEP 06).

    $peer->send_suggest(42);

This method hints to the peer that a specific piece is available and cheap to download.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$index>

The piece index to suggest.

=back

=head2 C<send_allowed_fast( $index )>

Sends an ALLOWED_FAST message (BEP 06).

    $peer->send_allowed_fast(42);

This method informs the peer that they can request a specific piece even if choked.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$index>

The piece index to allow.

=back

=head2 C<protocol( )>

Returns the protocol handler.

    my $handler = $peer->protocol();

This method returns the L<Net::BitTorrent::Protocol> object currently managing the connection.

=head2 C<is_encrypted( )>

Checks if the connection is encrypted.

    say 'Encrypted!' if $peer->is_encrypted;

This method returns a boolean indicating if the connection is using MSE/PE.

=head2 C<is_seeder( )>

Checks if the peer is a seeder.

    say 'Peer is a seeder' if $peer->is_seeder;

This method returns true if the peer has reported having all pieces.

=head2 C<flags( )>

Returns peer status flags.

    my $flags = $peer->flags();

This method returns a bitmask of peer status flags (e.g., encrypted, seeder).

=head2 C<set_protocol( $protocol )>

Sets the protocol handler.

    $peer->set_protocol( $handler );

This method replaces the current protocol handler (e.g., when upgrading from handshake-only to full protocol).

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$protocol>

The new protocol handler object.

=back

=head2 C<set_torrent( $torrent )>

Sets the parent torrent.

    $peer->set_torrent( $torrent );

This method associates the peer with a L<Net::BitTorrent::Torrent> object.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$torrent>

The parent torrent object.

=back

=head2 C<on_data( $data )>

Handles incoming raw data.

    $peer->on_data( $chunk );

This method feeds raw data from the transport layer into the peer's protocol handler.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$data>

The raw data string.

=back

=head2 C<receive_data( $data )>

Processes incoming data.

    $peer->receive_data( $data );

Internal alias for C<on_data> which also updates rate limits and stats.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$data>

The raw data string.

=back

=head2 C<write_buffer( )>

Flushes the write buffer to the transport.

    $peer->write_buffer();

This method gathers pending messages from the protocol handler and sends them over the transport layer, respecting rate
limits.

=head2 C<handle_message( $id, $payload )>

Dispatches a BitTorrent message.

    $peer->handle_message( 0, '' ); # CHOKE

This method is called by the protocol handler when a full message is received.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$id>

The numeric message ID.

=item C<$payload>

The raw message payload.

=back

=head2 C<is_allowed_fast( $index )>

Checks if a piece is in the allowed fast set.

    say 'Can request even if choked' if $peer->is_allowed_fast( 5 );

This method returns true if the specified piece index was received in an C<ALLOWED_FAST> message.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$index>

The piece index.

=back

=head2 C<disconnected( )>

Handles connection loss.

    $peer->disconnected();

This method cleans up state and notifies the parent torrent when the connection is closed.

=head2 C<tick( )>

Performs periodic maintenance.

    $peer->tick();

This method updates transfer rates, processes transport logic, and flushes outgoing data.

=head2 C<rate_down( )>

Returns the download rate.

    my $bps = $peer->rate_down;

This method returns the current download speed in bytes per second.

=head2 C<rate_up( )>

Returns the upload rate.

    my $bps = $peer->rate_up;

This method returns the current upload speed in bytes per second.

=head2 C<reputation( )>

Returns the peer's reputation.

    my $score = $peer->reputation();

This method returns the current reputation score of the peer.

=head2 C<adjust_reputation( $delta )>

Adjusts the peer's reputation.

    $peer->adjust_reputation(-20);

This method modifies the peer's reputation score. The connection is closed if the score drops below 50.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$delta>

The amount to change the reputation by (positive or negative).

=back

=head2 C<torrent( )>

Returns the parent torrent object.

    my $t = $peer->torrent();

=head2 C<transport( )>

Returns the transport object.

    my $trans = $peer->transport();

=head2 C<ip( )>

Returns the peer's IP address.

    my $ip = $peer->ip();

=head2 C<port( )>

Returns the peer's port number.

    my $port = $peer->port();

=head2 C<am_choking( )>

Returns true if we are choking the peer.

    if ($peer->am_choking) { ... }

=head2 C<peer_choking( )>

Returns true if the peer is choking us.

    if ($peer->peer_choking) { ... }

=head2 C<am_interested( )>

Returns true if we are interested in the peer.

    if ($peer->am_interested) { ... }

=head2 C<peer_interested( )>

Returns true if the peer is interested in us.

    if ($peer->peer_interested) { ... }

=head2 C<blocks_inflight( )>

Returns the number of pending block requests.

    my $count = $peer->blocks_inflight();

=head2 C<bitfield_status( )>

Returns the bitfield status string ('all', 'none', or raw data).

    my $status = $peer->bitfield_status();

=head2 C<set_bitfield_status( $status )>

Sets the bitfield status.

    $peer->set_bitfield_status('all');

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$status>

The status string.

=back

=head1 Specifications

=over

=item * B<BEP 03>: Core Peer Wire Protocol

=item * B<BEP 06>: Fast Extension (HAVE_ALL, HAVE_NONE, SUGGEST, ALLOWED_FAST)

=item * B<BEP 10>: Extension Protocol support

=item * B<BEP 11>: PEX (Peer Exchange) data handling

=item * B<BEP 16>: Super-seeding support

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson - L<https://github.com/sanko>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2008-2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
