=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Types - Shared constants for Net::BitTorrent

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::BitTorrent::Types qw[:all];

    if ($torrent->state == STATE_RUNNING) { ... }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module exports constants used throughout the Net::BitTorrent suite.

=head1 CONSTANTS

=head2 Encryption Levels (C<:encryption>)

=over

=item C<ENCRYPTION_NONE>

No protocol encryption is allowed. Only plaintext connections.

=item C<ENCRYPTION_PREFERRED>

Attempt encryption but fall back to plaintext if the peer doesn't support it.

=item C<ENCRYPTION_REQUIRED>

Only encrypted connections are allowed. Plaintext handshakes will be rejected.

=back

=head2 Swarm States (C<:state>)

=over

=item C<STATE_STOPPED>

The swarm is inactive. No network or disk I/O.

=item C<STATE_STARTING>

The swarm is initializing (allocating files, announcing to trackers).

=item C<STATE_RUNNING>

The swarm is actively transferring data.

=item C<STATE_PAUSED>

The swarm is active but data transfer is suspended.

=item C<STATE_METADATA>

The swarm is in magnet-mode, fetching the info dictionary.

=back

=head2 Piece Picking Strategies (C<:pick>)

=over

=item C<PICK_SEQUENTIAL>

Download pieces in order (0, 1, 2, ...). Useful for streaming.

=item C<PICK_RAREST_FIRST>

Download the pieces that are least common in the swarm first. Standard strategy.

=item C<PICK_STREAMING>

A hybrid strategy optimized for media playback.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson - L<https://github.com/sanko>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2008-2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
