# PODNAME: MooseX::Extended::Manual::Construction
# ABSTRACT: Objected construction for MooseX::Extended

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

MooseX::Extended::Manual::Construction - Objected construction for MooseX::Extended

=head1 VERSION

version 0.29

=head1 OBJECT CONSTRUCTION

The normal C<new>, C<BUILD>, and C<BUILDARGS> functions work as expected.
However, we apply L<MooseX::StrictConstructor> to avoid this problem:

    my $soldier = Soldier->new(
        name   => $name,
        rank   => $rank,
        seriel => $serial, # should be serial
    );

By default, misspelled arguments to the L<Moose> constructor are silently discarded,
leading to hard-to-diagnose bugs. With L<MooseX::Extended>, they're a fatal error.

If you need to pass arbitrary "sideband" data, explicitly declare it as such:

    param sideband => ( isa => HashRef, default => sub { {} } );

Naturally, because we bundle L<MooseX::Extended::Types>, you can do much
finer-grained data validation on that, if needed.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

The following two functions are exported into your namespace.

=head2 C<param>

    param name => ( isa => NonEmptyStr );

A similar function to Moose's C<has>. A C<param> is required. You may pass it
to the constructor, or use a C<default> or C<builder> to supply this value.

The above C<param> definition is equivalent to:

    has name => (
        is       => 'ro',
        isa      => NonEmptyStr,
        required => 1,
    );

If you want a parameter that has no C<default> or C<builder> and can
I<optionally> be passed to the constructor, just use C<< required => 0 >>.

    param title => ( isa => Str, required => 0 );

Note that C<param>, like C<field>, defaults to read-only, C<< is => 'ro' >>.
You can override this:

    param name => ( is => 'rw', isa => NonEmptyStr );

Otherwise, it behaves like C<has>. You can pass in any arguments that C<has>
accepts.

    # we'll make it private, but allow it to be passed to the constructor
    # as `name`
    param _name   => ( isa => NonEmptyStr, init_arg => 'name' );

=head2 C<field>

    field created => ( isa => PositiveInt, default => sub { time } );

A similar function to Moose's C<has>. A C<field> is never allowed to be passed
to the constructor, but you can still use C<default> or C<builder>, as normal.

The above C<field> definition is equivalent to:

    has created => (
        is       => 'ro',
        isa      => PositiveInt,
        init_arg => undef,        # not allowed in the constructor
        default  => sub { time },
        lazy     => 1,
    );

Note that C<field>, like C<param>, defaults to read-only, C<< is => 'ro' >>.
You can override this:

    field some_data => ( is => 'rw', isa => NonEmptyStr );

Otherwise, it behaves like C<has>. You can pass in any arguments that C<has>
accepts.

B<WARNING>: if you pass C<field> an C<init_arg> with a defined value, The code
will C<croak>. A C<field> is just for instance data the class uses. It's not
to be passed to the constructor. If you want that, just use C<param>.

=head3 Lazy Fields

A C<field> is automatically lazy if it has a C<builder> or C<default>. This is
because there's no guarantee the code will call them, but this makes it very
easy for a C<field> to rely on a C<param> value being present. Note that is
does mean if you need a C<field> to be initialized at construction time, you
have to take care:

    has created => ( isa => PositiveInt, lazy => 0, default => sub {time} );

Every C<param> is not lazy by default, but you can add C<< lazy => 1 >> if you need to.

=head1 AUTHOR

Curtis "Ovid" Poe <curtis.poe@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2022 by Curtis "Ovid" Poe.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The Artistic License 2.0 (GPL Compatible)

=cut
