=head1 NAME

HTTP::Server::Connection - represents a client connection

=head1 INHERITANCE

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The connection relates to one client.  Each time, a browser connects
to the socket, a new ::Connection object will be created.  Internally,
this object maintains a list of received requests, which will be
handled in the order they arrived.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

$obj-E<gt>B<async>(REQUEST, RUN, CALLBACK)

=over 4

The RUN code reference is called in a forked-off process.  The returned
value (LIST context) is passed to CALLBACK which runs in the daemon
process.  The CALLBACK must deliver a response.

example: 

 sub handler($$$)
 {   my ($conn, $request, $uri) = @_;
     my $fn    = '$rootdir/'.$uri->path;
     my $fread = sub      # (closure) in other process
       { my @lines = File::Slurp::read_file($fn);
         scalar @lines;
       };
     my $cb    = sub
       { my $text = join '#', @_;
         $conn->sendResponse($request, RC_OK, [], $text);
       };
     $conn->async($request, $fread, \&cb);
     undef;
  }

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<cancelConnection>

=over 4

Kill connection.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<closeConnection>

=over 4

No not accept any more requests, but handle which were already received.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<directoryList>(DIRECTORY, REQUEST, CALLBACK, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Returns file information from a directory.  This is executed in
a seperate process.  Your CALLBACK should return the response
object which has already been sent.  Your CALLBACK will not be called,
when the directory cannot be read.

See L</Return of directoryList> about the returned output.

 Option       --Default
 filter         <undef>
 hide_symlinks  <false>
 names          <skip hidden files>

. filter => CODE

=over 4

For each of the selected names (see  C<names> option) the lstat() is
called.  That data is expanded into a HASH, but not all additional
fields are yet filled-in (only the ones which come for free).

=back

. hide_symlinks => BOOLEAN

. names => CODE|Regexp

=over 4

Reduce the returned list.  The CODE reference is called with the found
filename, and should return true when the name is acceptable.  The
default regexp (on UNIX) is C<< qr/^[^.]/ >>

=back

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<load>(FILENAME|FILEHANDLE, CALLBACK)

=over 4

Asynchronously read the FILE via the multiplexer, not blocking the
activities for the other clients.  After everything has been read,
the CALLBACK will be called with a reference to the data read, or undef
on failure.  The CALLBACK must continue the work to end in a response.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<save>(FILE, DATA, CALLBACK)

=over 4

Asynchronously write the FILE via the multiplexer, not blocking the
activities for the other clients.  The FILE is specified either as file
name or file handle.  The DATA is a string or SCALAR-ref (the latter
usually providing a better performance).

After everything has been written, the user CALLBACK will be called.
The CALLBACK must continue the work to end in a response, because writing
is just an intermediate activity.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<sendFile>(REQUEST, FILE, [HEADER-ARRAY, [CALLBACK]])

=over 4

The FILE is either a filename or file handle.  In the latter case,
you have to specify the content type in the HEADER ARRAY (list of key
value pairs)

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<sendRedirect>(REQUEST, STATUS, LOCATION, [CONTENT])

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<sendResponse>(REQUEST, STATUS, HEADER, [CONTENT])

=over 4

The CONNECTION information is used to figure-out where the REQUEST
(a HTTP::Request object) came from.  The STATUS code is used in
the response, preferrable use the constants from HTTP::Status.
The HEADER is an ARRAY of header line pairs to be used in the answer.

You can use a scalar CONTENT, which will be used as response body.
In case the CONTENT parameter is a CODE reference, that CODE will
be called until C<undef> is returned.  The result of every call will
become a chunk in a chunked transfer encoded response.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<sendStatus>(REQUEST, STATUS, [TEXT])

=over 4

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head2 Return of directoryList

The L<directoryList()|HTTP::Server::Connection/"Constructors"> method returns a HASH of HASHes, where the
primary keys are the directory entries, each refering to a HASH
with details.  It is designed to ease the connection to template
systems.

The details contain the C<lstat> information plus some additional
helpers.  The lstat call provides the fields C<dev>, C<ino>, C<mode>,
C<nlink>, C<uid>, C<gid>, C<rdev>, C<size>,  C<atime>, C<mtime>,
C<ctime>, C<blksize>, C<blocks> -as far as supported by your OS.
The entry's C<name> and C<path> are added.

The C<kind> field contains the string C<DIRECTORY>, C<FILE>, C<SYMLINK>,
or C<OTHER>.  Besides, you get either an C<is_directory>, C<is_file>,
C<is_symlink>, or C<is_other> field set to true.  Equivalent are:

   if($entry->{kind} eq 'DIRECTORY')
   if($entry->{is_directory})

It depends on the kind of entry which of the following fields are added
additionally.  Symlinks will get C<symlink_dest>, C<symlink_dest_exists>.
Files hace the C<size_nice>, which is the size in pleasant humanly readable
format.

Files and directories have the C<mtime_nice> (in localtime).  The C<user> and
C<group> which are textual representations of the numeric uid and gid are
added.  The C<flags> represents the UNIX standard permission-bit display,
as produced by the "ls -l" command.

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of HTTP-Server-Multiplex distribution version 0.11,
built on October 01, 2008. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/httpd-multiplex/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2008 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

