=head1 NAME

ORDB::CPANTSWeight::DistWeight - ORDB::CPANTSWeight class for the dist_weight table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 select

  # Get all objects in list context
  my @list = ORDB::CPANTSWeight::DistWeight->select;
  
  # Get a subset of objects in scalar context
  my $array_ref = ORDB::CPANTSWeight::DistWeight->select(
      'where id > ? order by id',
      1000,
  );

The C<select> method executes a typical SQL C<SELECT> query on the
dist_weight table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM dist_weight> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns a list of B<ORDB::CPANTSWeight::DistWeight> objects when called in list context, or a
reference to an ARRAY of B<ORDB::CPANTSWeight::DistWeight> objects when called in scalar context.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head2 count

  # How many objects are in the table
  my $rows = ORDB::CPANTSWeight::DistWeight->count;
  
  # How many objects 
  my $small = ORDB::CPANTSWeight::DistWeight->count(
      'where id > ?',
      1000,
  );

The C<count> method executes a C<SELECT COUNT(*)> query on the
dist_weight table.

It takes an optional argument of a SQL phrase to be added after the
C<FROM dist_weight> section of the query, followed by variables
to be bound to the placeholders in the SQL phrase. Any SQL that is
compatible with SQLite can be used in the parameter.

Returns the number of objects that match the condition.

Throws an exception on error, typically directly from the L<DBI> layer.

=head1 ACCESSORS

=head2 id

  if ( $object->id ) {
      print "Object has been inserted\n";
  } else {
      print "Object has not been inserted\n";
  }

Returns true, or throws an exception on error.


REMAINING ACCESSORS TO BE COMPLETED

=head1 SQL

The dist_weight table was originally created with the
following SQL command.

  CREATE TABLE dist_weight (
  	id               integer      not null primary key,
  	dist             varchar(255) not null unique,
  	author           integer      not null,
  	weight           integer          null,
  	volatility       integer          null,
  	enemy_downstream integer      not null,
  	debian_candidate integer      not null
  , meta1 integer not null default 0, meta2 integer not null default 0, meta3 integer not null default 0, fails integer not null default 0)

=head1 SUPPORT

ORDB::CPANTSWeight::DistWeight is part of the L<ORDB::CPANTSWeight> API.

See the documentation for L<ORDB::CPANTSWeight> for more information.

=head1 AUTHOR

Adam Kennedy

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2009 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

