=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

pds.db - small database with planar difference set samples

=head1 VERSION

This is version 3.0 of the database, created on Oct 10, 2022.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This file is the default database distributed with the Perl 5 module
Math::DifferenceSet::Planar.

It contains 604 cyclic planar difference set planes with orders ranging
from 2 to 4096.  The planes include std, lex and gap reference sets.
For the definition of std reference sets, consult the documentation
of L<Math::DifferenceSet::Planar>.  Lex reference sets are minimal
by lexicographic ordering with priority on small over large elements,
so that {0, 1, 3, 9} ranks before {0, 1, 4, 6}.  Gap reference sets
are minimal by lexicographic ordering with priority on large over small
elements, so that {2, 3, 5} ranks before {0, 4, 5}.  The database also
contains planar difference set space data for the same range of orders.
The radices are chosen with the algorithm given in the example program
pds_find_space.

=head1 FILE FORMAT

SQLite 3.x database.

=head1 SCHEMA

  CREATE TABLE difference_set (
    order_      integer NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
    base        integer NOT NULL,
    ref_std     integer NOT NULL,
    ref_lex     integer NOT NULL,
    ref_gap     integer NOT NULL,
    delta_main  blob    NOT NULL
  );

  CREATE TABLE difference_set_space (
    order_      integer NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
    mul_radix   integer NOT NULL,
    mul_depth   integer NOT NULL,
    rot_radices blob    NOT NULL,
    rot_depths  blob    NOT NULL
  );

  CREATE TABLE database_version (
    table_name varchar NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
    major      integer NOT NULL,
    minor      integer NOT NULL
  );

=head1 DATA REPRESENTATION

If I<D = { d_1, d_2, ..., d_k } (mod m)> is a canonical cyclic planar
difference set of order I<k - 1> with I<d_1 E<8801> 0> and I<d_2 E<8801>
1 (mod m)>, and I<M = { m_1, m_2, ..., m_n } (mod m)> is the set of
main elements of its plane, I<delta_main> is a sequence of I<m> numeric
values packed in C<'w*'> format, calculated as differences of consecutive
residue values of I<M> starting with I<m_1>, I<m_2 - m_1>, I<m_3 - m_2>,
... up to I<m_n - m_(n-1)>.  I<D> can be recovered from I<M> by adding
derived and fill elements.

In addition to an arbitrary sample the database can hold various types of
reference sets for each order.  They are encoded by a rotation value with
respect to the sample set.  If a standard set, a lexically minimal set,
or a top-to-bottom lexically minimal set are known, nonzero I<ref_std>,
I<ref_lex>, or I<ref_gap> values refer to them, otherwise zero values
indicate their respective lack.

If a multiplier set of the form I<{b^k | 0 E<8804> k E<lt> e}>
with a radix I<b> and depth I<e>, and a rotator base of the form
I<{r_1^j_1E<183>r_2^j_2E<183>...E<183>r_n^j_n>
I<| 0 E<8804> j_k E<lt> e_k, 1 E<8804> k E<8804> n}>
with I<n> radices I<r_k> and I<n> depths I<e_k> describe the
multiplicative space of difference set planes of a given order,
I<rot_radices> and I<rot_depths> are vectors of rotation radices and
depths packed in C<'w*'> format.

For both difference set data tables, the database_version table contains
schema version information to facilitate quick compatibility checks.
A schema version of x.y is represented as major = x and minor = y.

=head1 PROVIDER

Martin Becker, E<lt>becker-cpan-mp I<at> cozap.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2019-2024 by Martin Becker, Blaubeuren.

This library is free software; you can distribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0 (see the LICENSE file).

The licence grants freedom for related software development but does
not cover incorporating code or documentation into AI training material.
Please contact the copyright holder if you want to use the library whole
or in part for other purposes than stated in the licence.

The contents of this database are mathematically defined entities.
The provider believes mathematical constants not to be proprietary or
subject to copyright legislation, although the software used to calculate
them and the accompanying documentation certainly are.

=cut
