=head1 NAME

CGI::Bus - Web and DBI Application object


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use CGI::Bus;
 $s =CGI::Bus->new();
 $s->print->htpfstart;       # start http, page, form

 $s->cgi->...                # -> CGI object
 $s->dbi->...                # -> DBI object
 $s->tmsql->...              # -> SQL database interface object
 ........
 $s->print->htpfend          # end form and page



=head1 DESCRIPTION

A web database with record versioning, 
access control at the record level, 
and file attachments 
was needed for me, 
see examples and L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql>...
Modular structure and some codes implemented due to
infrastructural needs.

This module is to provide based on L<CGI|CGI> module core application object
to load, contain and manage any other used by application objects,
methods and data.
Several slots and methods may be useful predefined and added also.
Several automatic subobject classes may be useful provided.
Perhaps, this looks something like C<Jellybean> or C<PAS>, 
but is not so complex or so right.

Currently implemented and tested on Win32 Apache and IIS.


=head2 SUBOBJECTS

L<CGI::Bus::Base|CGI/Bus/Base> is base class for automatic subobjects.

L<CGI::Bus::file|CGI/Bus/file> is a file object encapsulating 
L<IO::File|IO/File> object.

L<CGI::Bus::fut|CGI/Bus/fut> is a file and directory utils library.

L<CGI::Bus::psp|CGI/Bus/psp> is a very simple and little 
HTML/Perl script processor, 
like something as 
L<Apache::ASP|Apache/ASP>,
L<HTML::Embperl|HTML/Embperl>, L<HTML::HTPL|HTML/HTPL>,
L<HTML::Mason|HTML/Mason>.

L<CGI::Bus::smtp|CGI/Bus/smtp> is a simple SMTP sender,
based on L<Net::SMTP|Net/SMTP>.

L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> is a database Transaction page Manager 
to view and edit data, the base and simplest case of 
L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> below.

L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> is an SQL database user interface 
to view and edit data,
page transaction manager,
another than L<DBIx::HTMLView|DBIx/HTMLView>, C<eXtropia> or C<MOT>.

L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth> is default or base user authentication class,
provides C<user>, C<ugroups>, C<uglist> methods.
It translates web server authentication and uses platform specific methods.

L<CGI::Bus::udata|CGI/Bus/udata> is a user data store.

L<CGI::Bus::upws|CGI/Bus/upws> is a user personal work space.

L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg> is a collection of HTML widgets.



=head2 SOLUTIONS

See C<AUTOLOAD>, C<reset>, C<print>, L<CGI::Bus::Base|CGI/Bus/Base>



=head1 CLASSIFICATION

=over

=item Creation and Setup 

C<new>, C<set>, C<-import>, C<-reimport>


=item Internals

C<AUTOLOAD>, C<launch>, C<-classes>, C<-cache>, C<$CGI::Bus::SELF>,
C<reset>, C<-reset>, C<-endh>, C<DESTROY>, 
C<-debug>, C<microtest>


=item Subobjects and Features Embedded

C<cgi>, C<-cgi>, C<fcgicount>, C<request>, C<dbi>, C<-dbi>, C<oscmd>


=item Error and Message processing

C<die>, C<warn>, C<problem>, C<-problem>, 
C<pushmsg>, C<pushlog>, C<-pushlog>



=item Language

C<lngname>, C<-lngname>, C<lngload>, C<lng>


=item Locations

C<qpath>, C<-qpath>, C<qurl>, C<-qurl>,
C<spath>, C<-spath>, C<surl>, C<-surl>,
C<bpath>, C<-bpath>, C<burl>, C<-burl>,
C<dpath>, C<-dpath>,
C<tpath>, C<-tpath>,
C<ppath>, C<-ppath>, C<purl>, C<-purl>,
C<fpath>, C<-fpath>, C<furf>, C<-furf>, C<furl>, C<-furl>,
C<hpath>, C<-hpath>, C<hurf>, C<-hurf>, C<hurl>, C<-hurl>,
C<urfcnd>, C<-urfcnd>,
C<-iurl>



=item Utils

C<strtime>, C<timestr>, C<timeadd>,
C<cptran>, C<ishtml>,
C<dumpout>, C<dumpin>,
C<orarg>


=item HTML Generation

C<httpheader>, C<-httpheader>, 
C<htmlstart>, C<-htmlstart>, 
C<htpgstart>, C<-htpnstart>, C<-htpgstart>, C<-htpfstart>, C<-htpgtop>, 
C<htpgend>, C<-htpgbot>,
C<htpfstart>, C<htpfend>,
C<htmlescape>, C<urlescape>, C<dbquote>, C<dblikesc>,
C<htmlddlb>, C<htmltextarea>, C<htmltextfield>, C<htmlfsdir>


=item Parameters Handling

C<qparam>, C<param>, C<qparamh>, C<qrun>


=item User Name

C<userauth>, C<userauthopt>, C<-login>,
C<user>, C<useron>, 
C<-user>, C<-usercnv>, C<-unmsadd>, C<usercn>, C<usersn>, C<unames>, 
C<uguest>, C<uadmin>, C<-uadmins>, 
C<usdomain>, C<-usdomain>, C<userver>, C<-userver>, 
C<ugroups>, C<-ugroups>, C<-ugrpcnv>, C<-ugrpadd>, C<ugnames>, 
C<uglist>, C<-uglist>, C<-udflt>, C<-unflt>, C<-ugflt>,
C<unamesun>


=back



=head1 SLOTS

Are available via C<set> 
and several explicitly refered here methods.

=over

=item $CGI::Bus::SELF

Package variable, pointer to current C<CGI::Bus> object.
local $SELF is set within some methods for use by external objects or
methods.
See also C<evalsub>


=item -bpath

=item -burl

Binary path, URL
Default is path of script running.
Cached and used by C<bpath>, C<burl>.
See also C<Locations>.


=item -cache

Data cache hash ref for stable methods results 
to speed up by skipping some code evaluations.


=item -cgi

L<CGI|CGI> predefined object, created in C<initialize>


=item -classes

Classes to autocreate Objects: {-key=>class,...}. 
See also C<-import>, C<-reimport>, C<-reset>.


=item -dbi

L<DBI|DBI> predefined object


=item -debug

Debug Mode: add
1 - verbose operation messages at the bottom of HTML pages with "display: none" style, 
2 - verbose operation messages at the bottom of HTML pages, 
3 - some debug values as HTML comment,
4 - debug values at the bottom of HTML pages,
5 - results of some methods calls.


=item -dpath

Data path.
Default is C<tpath>.
Cached and used by C<dpath>.
See also C<Locations>.


=item -endh

Delayed commands hash ref, executed in C<reset>, cleaned after execution.


=item -fcgicount

Counter of L<CGI::Fast|CGI/Fast> loops.
Used inside C<fcgicount>.


=item -fcgimax

Margin of L<CGI::Fast|CGI/Fast> loops.
And FastCGI enable flag also.
Used inside C<fcgicount>.


=item -fpath

=item -furf

=item -furl

File store path, filesystem URL, URL.
Default is C<ppath>, C<fpath>, C<purl>.
Cached and used by C<fpath>, C<furf>, C<furl>
See also C<Locations>.


=item -hpath

=item -hurf

=item -hurl

Homes store path, filesystem URL, URL.
Default is C<ppath>, C<hpath>, C<purl>.
Cached and used by C<hpath>, C<hurf>, C<hurl>
See also C<Locations>.


=item -htmlstart

HTML start hash ref, for C<htmlstart>


=item -htpfstart

Form pages HTML start hash ref, for C<htmlstart>
in L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> and etc,
see also C<-htpgstart>, C<-htpnstart>


=item -htpgbot

HTML page end HTML string, for C<htpgend>


=item -htpgstart

Pages (views, lists) HTML start hash ref, for C<htmlstart> 
in L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> and etc,
see also C<-htpfstart>, C<-htpnstart>


=item -htpgtop

HTML page begin HTML string, for C<htpgstart>


=item -htpnstart

Navigator panes HTML start hash ref, for C<htmlstart> 
in L<CGI::Bus::upws|CGI/Bus/upws>,
see also C<-htpgstart>, C<-htpfstart>


=item -httpheader

HTTP header hash ref, for C<httpheader>


=item -iurl

Apache images URL to use instead of text only behaviour.
Default is undef, standard is '/icons'.


=item -import

 -import => {'use...'=>{-method=>call,...},...}

 -import => {'use...'=>[method,...],...}

 -import => {-key=>class}

Add Classes or Methods and Packages. This slot does not exists,
it is used only as C<set> parameter to fill other slots or C<-classes> slot.


=item -lngname

Name and charset of the language to use. See C<lngname>


=item -login

Login screen URL. 
Used by C<userauth> and L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth>.
If login URL ends with '/' sign, it is treated as 
authenticated location, current script name will be appended.


=item -ppath

=item -purl

Publish path, URL.
Default is $ENV{DOCUMENT_ROOT} ||$ENV{PATH_TRANSLATED} ||'.'; C<surl>.
Cached and used by C<ppath>, C<purl>.
See also C<Locations>.


=item -pushlog

Log file name to push messages to


=item -qpath

=item -qurl

Query (script) Path, URL.
Cached and used by C<qpath>, C<qurl>.
See also C<Locations>.


=item -reimport

 -reimport => {-key=>class,...}

 -reimport => [-key,...]

 -reimport => -key

Add Classes or slots to reset when reusing application object. 
This slot does not exists,
it is used only as C<set> parameter to fill C<-reset> or C<-classes> slots.
See also C<-import>, C<-reset>, C<new>.


=item -reset

 -reset => {-slot => 1,...}

slots to destroy when reusing application object.
See also C<-import>, C<-reimport>, C<new>.


=item -spath

=item -surl

Site path, URL
Cached and used by C<spath>, C<surl>.
See also C<Locations>.


=item -tpath

Temporary files path.
Default is based on L<CGI|CGI> $TempFile::TMPDIRECTORY ||$ENV{TMP} ||$ENV{TEMP}.
Cached and used by C<tpath>.
See also C<Locations>.


=item -uadmins

List (array ref) of administrators or
sub{} to check current user as administrator.
Used by C<uadmin>


=item -udflt

User domains filter optional sub{} to be evaluated against each domain name in $_.
Considered in L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth> windows specific codes.
See also C<-unflt>, C<-ugflt>.


=item -ugflt

User groups filter optional sub{} to be evaluated against each group name in $_.
Considered in C<ugroups> and C<uglist> default code.
See also C<-unflt>.


=item -uglist

Users and groups list optional sub{}.
C<uglist> method evaluates this sub or uses it's own code.


=item -ugroups

User groups list optional sub{}.
C<ugroups> method evaluates this sub or uses it's own code.


=item -ugrpadd

Additional user groups names array or hash ref or research sub{},
used by C<ugroups>.
Example:

 $g->set(-ugrpadd=>sub{['Everyone','Guests']})


=item -ugrpcnv

User groups names conversion optional sub{}
to convert or filter user and group names 
to be returned by C<ugroups>, C<uglist>.
Example:

 $g->set(-ugrpcnv=>sub{$_[0]->usersn})


=item -unflt

User names filter optional sub{} to be evaluated against each name in $_.
Considered in C<uglist> default code.
See also C<-ugflt>.


=item -unmsadd

Additional user names research sub{},
used by C<unames>.
Example:

 $g->set(-unmsadd=>sub{$_[0]->usercn})


=item -urfcnd

Filesystem URLs (file://) condition sub{}.
Condition to use '-urf's instead of '-url's.
See also C<urfcnd>


=item -usdomain

User names Server's Domain name optional evaluation sub{}.
C<usdomain> method evaluates this sub or returns 
value from L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth>.
See also C<-userver>, C<userver>


=item -user

User name get optional sub{}.
C<user> method evaluates this sub or returns user name got from web server.


=item -userver

User names Server name optional evaluation sub{}.
C<userver> method evaluates this sub or returns 
value from L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth>.
See also C<-usdomain>, C<usdomain>


=item -userauth

User authentication optional sub{} or 
reference to list of authentication options.
C<userauth> evaluates this sub or calls L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth>->'auth'
if there is no current user.
Authentication options will be passed to L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth>->'auth'.


=item -usercnv

User name conversion optional sub{}
to convert or filter user names 
to be returned by C<user>.
Example:

 $g->set(-usercnv=>sub{lc($_[0]->usercn)});



=item -w32IISdpsn

Deimpersonation place for Microsoft IIS authenticated user session, 
see also C<userauth>().

	0 - never
	1 - when required, i.e. for file store operation
	2 - always and early


=back



=head1 METHDOS

=over


=item AUTOLOAD

Loads subobject or method requested in order:
subobject or method defined via C<set>(C<-import>),
L<CGI|CGI> module method,
automatic C<CGI::Bus> subobject.
Sets new object slot 'CGI::Bus' to application object.
See also C<Creation and Setup>, C<Internals>


=item bpath -> binary path

=item bpath (subpath) -> binary subdirectory path

Binary path cached in C<-bpath> with given subpath added.
See also C<Locations>.


=item burl -> binary URL

=item burl (subpath) -> binary subdirectory URL

=item burl (subpath, param => value,...) -> binary subdirectory URL

Binary URL cached in C<-burl> with given subpath and parameters added.
See also C<Locations>.


=item cgi () -> C<CGI> object

C<CGI> predefined object stored in C<-cgi>


=item cptran (fromCP, toCP, strings) -> translated

Translates strings from codepage fromCP to codepage toCP,
returns translated string or list of strings. 
Codepages may be 'oem', '866','ansi', '1251','koi' prone of koi8,
'8859-5' prone of ISO 8859-5.


=item dbi (constructor args) -> new C<DBI> object

=item dbi -> current C<DBI> object

Create new or return current C<DBI> object stored in C<-dbi>


=item dblikesc (text) -> escaped

Escapes text to use inside SQL LIKE 'text' ESCAPE '\' expression.
See also C<htmlescape>, C<urlescape>, C<dbquote>.


=item dbquote (text) -> quoted

Quotes text to use inside SQL.
See also C<htmlescape>, C<urlescape>, C<dblikesc>.


=item DESTROY

Destructor, uses C<reset> for almost all application object.
See also C<Creation and Setup>, C<Internals>


=item die (?message) -> died

Error Stop, like CORE::die.
Message with "\n" signs is considered to be for user,
without "\n" is treated as software error and implemented via 
'confess' or 'croak'.
See also C<Error and Message processing>, L<CGI::Carp|CGI/Carp>


=item dpath -> data path

=item dpath (subpath) -> data subdirectory path

Data path cached in C<-dpath> with given subpath added.
See also C<Locations>.


=item dumpin ( data string ) -> data ref

=item dumpout ( data ref ) -> data string

Stringify and destringify data structure with
L<Data::Dumper|Data/Dumper> and L<Safe|Safe>


=item evalsub (sub, arguments) -> result

Evals sub given with local $CGI::Bus::SELF set to application object.


=item CGI::Bus::fcgicount (-fcgimax=>number, constructor args) -> success self

=item fcgicount (self, -fcgimax=>number, constructor args) -> success self

=item fcgicount -> success self

Interface for L<CGI::Fast|CGI/Fast>.
Uses C<-fcgicount>, C<-fcgimax>.
May be used in constructs like:

 while ($s =CGI::Bus::fcgicount($s,-fcgimax=>...)) {};
 while (1) {$s =CGI::Bus::new($s,-fcgimax=>...); ...; last until $s->fcgicount};



=item fpath ( ?subpath ) -> File store path

=item furf  ( ?subpath, ?args ) -> File store file URL

=item furl  ( ?subpath, ?args ) -> File store URL

Location of file store 
cached in C<-fpath>, C<-furf>, C<-furl> 
with given subpath added.
Default is C<ppath>, C<fpath>, C<purl>.
See also C<Locations>.


=item hpath ( ?subpath ) -> Home store path

=item hurf  ( ?subpath, ?args ) -> Home store file URL

=item hurl  ( ?subpath, ?args ) -> Home store URL

Location of home store 
cached in C<-hpath>, C<-hurf>, C<-hurl> 
with given subpath added.
Default is C<ppath>, C<hpath>, C<purl>.
See also C<Locations>.



=item htmlddlb (false, name, data, field name,...) -> HTML drop-down list box

=item htmlddlb (widget | false, name, data, [field name => label],...)

Generate input helper drop-down list box HTML.
Optional 'widget' parameter (html, '$_' placeholder, any other string or empty value),
is used only to be placed after some javascript may be generated.
Name is used as the common part of names of the HTML widgets - submits, 
scrolling_list, buttons, which names are generated by appending '_' sign
and suffix.
Data may be array ref with list of values,
hash ref with internal and external values, 
sub{} to produce above.
Other arguments are field names to fill with values.
Field names with leading "\t" corresponds to multivalue fields,
leading "\tmsab\t" hints to try Microsoft Address Book before if possible.
Implemented in L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg>.


=item htmlescape (text) -> escaped

C<CGI::escapeHTML> call.
See also C<urlescape>, C<dbquote>, C<dblikesc>.


=item htmlescapetext (text) -> escaped 

Alike C<htmlescape>, but with
text area formatting improved with '&nbsp;' signs and '<code>' tags as needed;
'<br />' and '<a href=' tags; 
URLs; 
relative URLs marked with 'host://' and 'url://' protocols.


=item htmlfsdir ( name, edit?, allow edit?, files path, URL, ?filesystemURL, ?rows, ?cols )

Generate filesystem directory editor HTML.
This may be IE HTML IFRAME tag pointed to filesystem,
URLs, or filefield for upload files and checkboxes to delete.
Name is used as the common part of names of the HTML widgets.
Implemented in L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg>.


=item htmlstart (?parameters) -> start html string

Start HTML string using C<CGI::start_html>(?parameters) call.
Default parameters are given from C<-htmlstart> slot.


=item htmltextarea (-name=>...,-arows=>min, -hrefs=>1,...) -> textarea HTML

Like C<CGI::textarea> call, but with additional attributes:
-arows=>min autosizes widget to it's content.
-hrefs=>1 searches HTML hyperlinks in content and displays them.
Implemented in L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg>.


=item htmltextfield (-name=>..., -asize=>min) -> text field HTML

Like C<CGI::textfield> call, but with additional attributes:
-asize=>min autosizes widget to it's content.
Implemented in L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg>.


=item htpfend -> end form and page HTML

End HTML form and page string using C<htpgend>.


=item htpfstart (?httpheader, ?htmlstart) -> start page and form HTML

Start HTML page and form string using C<htmlstart>, C<-htpfstart>.


=item htpgend () -> end page HTML

End HTML page string using C<-htpgbot> and
C<CGI>->C<end_html> call.


=item htpgstart (?httpheader, ?htmlstart) -> start page HTML

Start HTML page string using C<httpheader>, C<htmlstart>, 
C<-htpgstart>, C<-htpgtop>


=item httpheader (?parameters) -> HTTP header string

HTTP header string using C<CGI::header>(?parameters).
Default parameters are given from C<-httpheader> slot.


=item ishtml ( text ) -> is text HTML formatted?

Detect HTML format of text: beginning
with '<' and one of well-known HTML tags.


=item launch (class => constructor args) -> object

=item launch -> class(constructor args) -> object

Creates object unbinded to C<CGI::Bus> object.
Uses C<AUTOLOAD> like principles, but does not attaches 
object created to C<CGI::Bus> object.


=item lng (msg) -> language message variants array ref

=item lng (number, msg) -> language message

Message text in current language.
0 - short message, label.
1 - long message, comment or description.


=item lngload (class, ?language) -> language base hash ref

Loads and returns language base hash ref for class given.


=item lngname () -> language name with charset

=item lngname (language to set)

Returns current language name with charset.
Default is $ENV{HTTP_ACCEPT_LANGUAGE} and $ENV{HTTP_ACCEPT_CHARSET}.


=item microtest

Prints some diagnostics, used in debug mode.


=item new ( -slot=>value...) -> new application object

=item new (?reuse,...)...

Create new or reuse existed application object.
See also C<Creation and Setup>, C<Internals>


=item orarg (sub, arg,...) -> succeeded arg

=item orarg (function string, arg,...) -> succeeded arg

Evaluates sub or function given with local $_ set to each arg
until success. Returns successful arg. 
Example: orarg('-d','c:/home','c:/users') returns first
existed directory.


=item oscmd (?'-hi', command, args) -> success

Execute given OS command with output interception.
Command and output will be stored with C<pushmsg> if 'h'ide option is not set.
Non zero return code will produce C<die> if 'i'gnore option is not set.
The last argument may be sub{} to print to STDIN of the command.


=item param (args) -> L<CGI|CGI> subobject C<param> call

L<CGI|CGI> subobject C<param> call, optimising C<AUTOLOAD>ing.
See also C<qparam>


=item ppath -> publish path

=item ppath (subpath) -> publish subdirectory path

Publish path cached in C<-ppath> with given subpath added.
See also C<Locations>.


=item print -> print object

=item print (?args to print) -> print object

Prints arguments, returns object, 
that autoloads self or L<CGI|CGI> method, 
prints result of it,
returns itself.
This is useful to shorten notation and some output control.
Example: $u->print->h1('some header')->h2('some header') 
will print 'h1' and 'h2' tags given.
See also: C<AUTOLOAD>, C<cgi>


=item problem (?message) -> problem set

Set problem flag or message C<-problem>.
See also C<Error and Message processing>


=item purl -> publish URL

=item purl (subpath) -> publish subdirectory URL

=item purl (subpath, param => value,...) -> publish subdirectory URL

Publish URL cached in C<-purl> with given subpath and parameters added.
See also C<Locations>.


=item pushlog ( messages )

Push messages strings to C<-pushlog> file


=item pushmsg -> messages []

=item pushmsg (messages) -> messages []

Retrieve and store messages strings.
Accumulate messages to display.


=item qparam  ([parameters names]) -> [parameters values]

=item qparam  ([names]=>[values]) -> [values]

=item qparam  ({name=>value,...}) -> {name=>value,...}

=item qparam  (?CGI param args) -> CGI param call

=item qparamh ([names]) -> {name=>value,...}

C<CGI::param> call extended


=item qpath -> query (script) path

=item qpath (subpath) -> query (script) subdirectory path

Query (script running) path including script name
cached in C<-qpath> with given subpath added.
See also C<Locations>.


=item qrun () -> run parameter value

Query to run: 
C<CGI::param>('_run') ||C<CGI::param>('') ||C<CGI::param>('run')


=item qurl -> query (script) URL

=item qurl (subpath) -> query (script) subdirectory URL

=item qurl (subpath, param => value,...) -> query (script) subdirectory URL

Query (script running) URL including script name
cached in C<-qurl> with given subpath and parameters added.
See also C<Locations>.


=item request () -> web server request object

Predefined web server request object - 
something like C<cgi> or Apache->request.


=item reset

=item reset ({-slot=>1,...})

Reset application object, i.e. when reusing - 
release subobjects to be reinitiated.
Calls destructors of objects to be released,
deletes 'CGI::Bus' slots of this objects.
See also C<Creation and Setup>, C<Internals>



=item set (-slot) -> value

=item set (-slot=>value,...) -> application object

Retrieve or set application object slots.
See also C<Creation and Setup>


=item spath -> site path

=item spath (subpath) -> site subdirectory path

Site path cached in C<-spath> with given subpath added.
See also C<Locations>.


=item strtime ( ?mask, ?@time ) -> string

=item strtime ( ?mask, ?time seconds ) -> string

Convert given date-time array into string using mask or format given.
Mask constructions are 'yyyy', 'yy', 'mm', 'dd', 'hh', 'mm' or 'MM', 'ss',
or L<POSIX|POSIX> C<strftime> format.
Default mask is 'yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss'.
Default time is C<localtime>(C<time>).


=item surl -> site URL

=item surl (subpath) -> site subdirectory URL

=item surl (subpath, param => value,...) -> site subdirectory URL

Site URL cached in C<-purl> with given subpath and parameters added.
See also C<Locations>.


=item timeadd (time seconds, years, ?months, ?days, ?hours, ?minutes ,?seconds) -> time seconds

Add values given to time given.


=item timestr ( ?mask, time string ) -> time seconds

Convert time string by mask to compatible with C<time> number of seconds.
See C<strtime> for mask constructions and default mask.


=item tpath -> temporary files path

=item tpath (subpath) -> temporary subdirectory path

Temporary files path cached in C<-tpath> with given subpath added.
See also C<Locations>.


=item uadmin () -> administrator?

=item uadmin ( user or group name ) -> administrator?

=item uadmin ( [] ) -> [ managed users ]

Is current user an administrator (checked against C<-uadmins>) or 
an administrator of user or group given 
(checked against L<CGI::Bus::udata|CGI/Bus/udata>)?
What names are managed by current user?


=item uglist ( ?'-ug' ) -> [users and groups list]

=item uglist ( ?'-ug<>', {}, ?label width ) -> {name => label,...}

List all users and groups.
Options are 'u'sers, 'g'roups, '<>' force comment notation,
default are '-ug'.
See also C<-uglist>


=item ugnames () -> [user and group names]

Names and groups of current user, including
C<unames> and C<ugroups>


=item ugroups (?user name) -> [user groups]

Groups current user belongs to. Default is current user.
See also C<-ugroups>.


=item uguest (?user name) -> guest?

Is current user or user name given a guest or authenticated?


=item unames () -> [user names]

Names of current user, including
C<user>, C<usercn>, lowercase of this names.
See also C<ugnames>.


=item unamesun (user names list) -> [unique names]

Convert user names list to contain only unique names.
Remove redundant lowercases and common names as possible.


=item urfcnd () -> use URFs?

Condition to use filesystem URLs (file://) instead of HTTP URLs (http://).
This depends on browser type (see source code) and C<-urfcnd>.


=item urlescape (text) -> escaped

C<CGI::escape> call.
See also C<htmlescape>, C<dbquote>, C<dblikesc>.


=item usdomain () -> User names Server's Domain name

=item usdomain (set name)

User names Server's Domain name - Windows NT or DNS domain name
that may be included in C<user> result as a part.
See also C<-usdomain>, L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth>.


=item user () -> user name

=item user (?user name) -> user name set

User name of the current user.
See also C<-user>.


=item userauth (?redirect) -> user name

Authenticate current user if guest.
There are three authentication methods:
by web server, via C<-login> script back redirecting;
by application, using C<-login> screen back redirecting;
by web server, redirecting to C<-login> directory.
First two methods uses signature cookies.
Last method on Microsoft IIS requests 'RevertToSelf' deimpersonation
using L<Win32::API|Win32/API> and requires low process insulation.

See also C<-userauth>, C<-w32IISdpsn>, L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth>.



=item userauthopt () -> user name

Authenticate current user if guest and required
by '_auth' or '_login' L<CGI|CGI> param.
Otherwise avoid '_*(login|auth|a|ntlm)'
IIS impersonated script subURL with redirection if not 'RevertToSelf.
Uses C<userauth>.


=item usercn (?username) -> user name common part

Common name of user, without domain part


=item userds (?username) -> user name as directory structure

User name as directory structure


=item userfn (?username) -> user name as filename

User name as filename


=item useron () -> user original name

Original name of the current user, C<user> value before C<-usercnv>


=item usersn (?username) -> user shorten name

User shorten name, 
with C<usdomain> value removed if present.


=item userver () -> User names Server name

=item userver (set name)

User names Server name - Windows NT or DNS host name.
See also C<-userver>, L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth>.


=item warn (?message) -> warning

Warning message, like CORE::warn.
Message with "\n" signs is considered to be for user,
without "\n" is treated as software warn and implemented via 
'cluck' or 'carp'.
See also C<Error and Message processing>, L<CGI::Carp|CGI/Carp>


=back





=head1 VERSION

=over


=head2 07/09/2007

Version 0.62, improvement release.


=head2 23/08/2007

New L<CGI::Bus::tm -banner|CGI/Bus/tm>.

Corrected 'xcopy' command call under PerlEx.


=head2 29/06/2007

Version 0.61, improvement release.


=head2 26/06/2007

Corrections for Active Perl/PerlIS 5.8 and L<CGI|CGI> 3.20:
'use CGI qw(-nph -no_xhtml)'; '$CGI::Q =$s->{-cgi}';
new C<url> fixing L<CGI::url|CGI>.


=head2 12/06/2007

Fixed for newer L<CGI|CGI> peculiarities: 'use CGI qw(-no_xhtml)', C<CGI>->C<br>, C<print>->C<br>.


=head2 23/01/2007

Fixed L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql>::fsacl considering 'cacls' for invalid user names.


=head2 21/03/2006

Changed C<htmlddlb>, the first parameter, input widget, became positional, but may be empty.


=head2 20/03/2006

Changed C<htmlddlb>, leading "\tmsab\t" hints to try Microsoft Address Book before if possible.



=head2 14/01/2006

New C<-w32IISdpsn> slot.


=head2 26/12/2005

New C<-ugrpadd> slot.


=head2 25/11/2005

Version 0.60, improvement release.


=head2 22/11/2005

New C<dbquote> and C<dblikesc> methods.


=head2 29/08/2005

Improved styles/classes in L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> and L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm>.

L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> QBF expressions extended with 'rlike', 'regexp', 'similar to' operators.


=head2 12/08/2005

L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> supplied with default C<-style> for C<-htmlstart>;
L<CGI::Bus::upws|CGI/Bus/upws> screens corrected using style names.


=head2 03/08/2005

L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm>,
L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql>,
L<CGI::Bus::upws|CGI/Bus/upws>,
L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg>:
'font size=-1' replaced with 'style="font-size: smaller;"',
class names somewere added
to improve CSS behaviour.


=head2 15/03/2005

Version 0.59, improvement release.


=head2 19/01/2005

C<tpath> usage replaced with C<dpath>
in L<CGI::Bus::udata|CGI/Bus/udata> and L<CGI::Bus::upws|CGI/Bus/upws>;
C<-tpath> is not used directly inside L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> now,
but only as C<-dpath> default value 
and for L<CGI|CGI> $TempFile::TMPDIRECTORY.


=head2 10/01/2005

Some corrections in L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg> 'ddlb' 
and L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> behaviours.


=head2 26/11/2004

L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg> 'ddlb' 
and L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> 'htmlddlb'
changed - optional 'field' parameter added.


=head2 22/11/2004

L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg> changed - 'ddlb'
gives default value from the first field, 
'ddlb' double clicking invokes the first field filling.


=head2 19/11/2004

C<ugroups> extended with new 'user name' parameter.


=head2 16-17/11/2004

Additional L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> '-opflg' options.
New L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> 'cmdfe' method.
New L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> '-rowsel1a', '-rowsel2a', '-rowsel3a' slots.
HTML style names changed, style usage extended in L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm>, 
L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql>,
L<CGI::Bus::upws|CGI/Bus/upws>.


=head2 05/11/2004

New L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> 'f'etch flag in '-flg' for 'cmdlst'.


=head2 03/11/2004

L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> changed implementing experimental '_tsw_LSO'
interface for options embedded into views.

L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth> fixed
to return ['guest'] instead of empty list from 'ugroups'.

L<CGI::Bus::lngbase|CGI/Bus/lngbase> strings corrected.


=head2 25/10/2004

L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> 'cmdlst' changed to
bind database columns to hash ref available from '-rowlst' and '-clst'.


=head2 18-19/10/2004

L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> 'evaluate' changed to execute
some L<CGI::Bus::upws|CGI/Bus/upws>
'_run' commands as full-text 'SEARCH' or user 'SETUP'.

L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> 'qlst' changed to determine 
default view via '_' sign not only at the end of
the view name, but at the end of the view label too.



=head2 12/10/2004

New L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> C<-listurm> slots


=head2 11/10/2004

L<locale|locale> used for sorting in some places.



=head2 10/10/2004

Version 0.58, improvement release.



=head2 09/10/2004

C<-udflt> slot added.


=head2 27/09/2004

'<>' C<uglist> option added.


=head2 21/09/2004

C<-unflt> and C<-ugflt> slots added.


=head2 14/09/2004

L<Win32::OLE|Win32/OLE>->Option("Warn"=>0) used anywere
(in L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg>, L<CGI::Bus::upws|CGI/Bus/upws>, L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth>).

C<-endh> slote developed for L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth> ADSI data buffering.

L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth> evoluted to buffer ADSI data inside C<dpath>
for faster access and Apache usage.


=head2 30/08/2004

L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> - C<-swrite> does not grant read right,
C<-sread> should be used instead.
Changes in 'acltest' (C<-swrite> excluded for '-lst','-sel') 
and 'fsacl' (filesystem - excluded when read, '.htaccess' - excluded).


=head2 26-28/08/2004

L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth>
- migration to base on Windows ADSI,
other Windows intarfaces (and 'findgrp.exe') used at last,
C<-adsi> slot ignored.

C<-debug> levels shifted, 
new level '1' produces debug output with "display: none" style,
operation rezult should be clicked to access.
This is useful to view SQL.


=head2 23-25/08/2004

L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm>
- record ID added to some command button URLs if available.

L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm>
- some record view/edit form corrections.

L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm>
- C<-pxqc> fields commented out as unused in transaction sequences.

L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql>
- switch to view mode after insert/update/delete when versioning.

L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> and L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm>
- '-cmdCCC' view description slots implemented.

L<CGI::Bus::smtp|CGI/Bus/smtp>
- C<addrtr> method added.



=head2 19/08/2004

'DHTML Edit Control for IE5' replaced with 'MSHTML Edit Control for IE5.5'
in L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg>.

L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> and L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> little corrections.


=head2 24/06/2004

C<unames> code rewritten, 
lowercases removed (C<-usercnv> may be used), 
C<-unmsadd> slot added.

'DHTML Edit Control for IE5' experimentally used in L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg>.


=head2 09/06/2004

Version 0.57, improvement release.


=head2 27/05/2004 - 05/06/2004

HTML classes added to support CSS.

Inline HTML styles changed to be compatible with Mozilla.

'Back' button behaviour changed - 'window.history.back()' follows 'window.history.go(-x)', 
this is useful for opened in new windows links.

Perl warnings will be shown at the bottom of the screen in debug modes.

C<usercn> removed from C<ugnames>.

L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth> changed: 
Microsoft IIS deimpersination code added 
using 'RevertToSelf' via L<Win32::API|Win32/API>.
Tried when finished with '/' sign C<-login> URL.
See cource code comments.

L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg> changed:
added user interface to close opened file attachments on Windows server.


=head2 07/07/2003

Version 0.56 released


=head2 25/06/2003

L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> changed: 'htmlbar' button set behaviour.

L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> changed: new '-listrnm' view description slot
used in 'cmdlst' alike common '-listrnm' slot


=head2 21/05/2003

L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> fixed:
Excluded 'order by', 'group by', 'limit' clauses from
gant (timeline) chart minimum and maximum margins SQL 'select' command
to escape fields to be defined in 'select' list.

'gwo' application example changed:
added 'List Obj Hier' view and 'subject_q' virtual field.



=head2 29-28/04/2003

L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> new '-wherepar' view description slot

L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> C<cmdfrm> fixed:
'l'ist, 's'elect, '"'quoted only fields (C<-flg> =~/^["'ls]*$/)
are not considered in form layout now



=head2 26-25/04/2003

L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus>, L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg>, L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> changed:
special URL protocol 'url://' added, translated as relative to script URL.
Special URL protocols new aliaces: 
host:// or urlh://, url:// or urlr://, fsurl:// or urlf://



=head2 24/04/2003

Version 0.55 released


=head2 17/04/2003

C<htmlescapetext>() method introduced, 'gwo' and 'notes' examples changed.

L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> 
'cmdfrm' text area formatting improved with '&nbsp;' signs and '<code>' tags as needed.

L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> 
'acltest' - fixed record read delegation via '-readsub':
it processes further only array refs from 'acl' now, 
false values will be ignored in loop, true - returned.
'gwo' and 'notes' examples changed.


=head2 07/04-31/03/2003

C<microtest>, C<microenv> increased using L<getlogin()|perlfunc> or L<Win32::LoginName()|Win32>.


L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus>, L<CGI::Bus::upws::search|CGI/Bus/upws> changed: '_*(login|auth|a|ntlm|search|guest)' special IIS subURLs introduced:

/cgi-bin/cgi-bus - may be common unimpersonated URL under IUSR_xxx user, and moreover

/cgi-bin/login/cgi-bus - common impersonated virtual URL of /cgi-bin/cgi-bus,

/cgi-bin/search/cgi-bus - common guest access unimpersonated virtual URL of /cgi-bin/cgi-bus under IUSR_xxx_1 user


C<userauthopt> changed:
avoiding '_*(login|auth|a|ntlm|search|guest)' IIS impersonated script subURL 
with authentication or redirection as needed.


L<CGI::Bus::psp|CGI/Bus/psp> modified:
[filename, base] filename syntax may now be used to generate '<base href...>' tag


L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> modified:
new '-htaccess' subslot of '-acd'


=head2 25/11/2002

L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> fixed: 
C<cmdfrm> lost line breacks when displaying text areas with embedded URLs


=head2 18-19/11/2002

L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg> changed: 'fsdir' displays now filesystem URLs 
only in edit mode. Files URLs supplied with '_blank' option.


=head2 17/11/2002

L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> changed: new 'thead' and 'tbody' HTML tags in C<cmdlst>.


=head2 08/11/2002

gwo.cgi changed: 'otime' field SQL formula changed from '..., gwo.utime)' to
'..., COALESCE(gwo.etime, gwo.utime)'.

gwo.cgi new: 'All News', 'Our News', 'Pers News' views.


=head2 31/10/2002

L<CGI::Bus::wg|CGI/Bus/wg> changed:
C<textarea>: special URL protocols may be used and translated in the text: 
'host://'  -> '/'.

L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> changed:
C<-inp> C<Field Description>: 'htmltextarea' URLs display behaviour 
is extended with special URL protocol 'fsurl://' to be translated 
to C<fsurl> value.


=head2 20/10/2002

L<CGI::Bus::upws|CGI/Bus/upws> new:
C<-search>, C<-searchms> slots. 
Problem: Microsoft Index Server calls should be impersonalisated
to obtain rightly ACL checked results.




=head2 14/10/2002

Version 0.54 released


=head2 21/08/2002 - 31/08/2002 - 12-13/09/2002 - 16/09/2002

L<CGI::Bus::psp|CGI/Bus/psp> changed:
C<parse> omits text given before m/<(!DOCTYPE|html|head)/i,
so mixed CGI/HTML page files may be parsed. 
Synopsis changed to reflect this feature.


L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> new:
C<-logo> slot

L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> changed:
C<htmlbar> and C<cmdhlp> behaviour for '<' C<-opflg>.


L<CGI::Bus::upws|CGI/Bus/upws> changed: 
C<scrleft> discards duplicate rows to display.
'label|URL|_target|URL' syntax added to deal with a complex pages.
Logotype (C<-logo>) enclosed within URL filling the current browser window 
with C<scrleft>.

L<CGI::Bus::upws|CGI/Bus/upws> new: 
'USITES' CGI param for C<scrusites> identifier or number
- to use multiple sets of users home pages, empty parameter
means default page set


L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> changed:

C<cmdlst> - fixed parsing of query condition parameters with 
leading '<>=' operators

C<acltest> - field may contain several user names delimited with commas with 
spaces allowed. Regular expression is used instead of 'eq' comparison.

C<aclsel> - sub{}, m/^\$_(regexp|rlike)$/i, m/.*\$_.*/ 
special parameters introduced 
for the field name followed




=head2 19/05/2002 - 01-06/06/2002 - 13/06/2002 - 19/06/2002

=item Changed

 - gwo.cgi - fields 'subject_v' and 'alist_v' used in all views,
   perconal views filters changed
 - uauth.pm - 'ugroups' on Win32 returns global group names prefixed 
   with domain name for users from foreign domains. '-ugrpcnv' 
   should be commented out. 'gwo.cgi' and 'notes.cgi' default group 
   detection condition changed
 - gwo.cgi - fields 'subject_v', 'plist_v', 'alist_v' added to use 
   in views, timeline view changed using this fields
 - timeline view supplied with predefined date margin columns from 
   '-gant1' and '-gant2', so 'gwo.cgi' changed

=item New

 - IE6 with IIS problem detected - on 'post' requests browser brings 
   IIS to authentication/impersonalisation of the script to be not 
   impersonalisated, but placed in the same directory as requiring web 
   server authentication 'uauth.cgi'
 - tm.pm, tmsql.pm: '-refresh' view and common slots
 - tm.pm, tmsql.pm: '-htmlts', '-htmlte', '-width' common slots; 
   '-width' field slot
 - cache-control http header mentioned in 'config.pl'
 - form tag generation with '-acceptcharset' attribute given from 
   '-httpheader'
 - notes.cgi - 'mailto' field added
 - install-db.pl script to install or upgrade applications database
 - tmsql.pm: '-width' view attribute
 - tmsql.pm: 'explain select...' 'pushmsg' when listing data


=head2 07/05/2002 - 18/05/2002


=item New

 - tmsql.pm: '-htmlts', '-htmlte', '-gant1', '-gant2', '-htmlg1' 
   view slots.
 - tmsql.pm: '-rowsav1' and '-rowsav2' events.


=item Changed

 - gwo.cgi - timeline chart view using '-gant1' and '-gant2' 
   view slots.
 - gwo.cgi - mailsend code improved using '-rowsav1' event.
 - uauth.pm - filtered rows with space chars only 'findgrp.exe' 
   may return.
 - tm.pm - textarea fields displays linebreaks when viewed
 - tm.pm - 'Select' command turns to view mode from edit mode, 
           'Edit' command removed from edit mode; 
           '!s'elect command button '-opflg' flag
 - Bus.pm - '-debug=>3' recurse loop corrected

=item Issue on tm.pm record 'Select' and 'Edit' command buttons

'Select' command may to be removed, 
'Edit' command may to be restricted to appear when record viewing only.
'Select' may be replaced with 'refresh' browser action when record viewing.
'Select' may be useful to reject changes, but it is not very required.
'Select' may be useful to select record when it's key is available, so some flag
in '-opflg' should be used to turn it on or off.
'Edit' command when editing loses changes and may be useful only to preview HTML
entered by user. 'Edit' may be also associated with 'Select' when record editing.



=head2 05/04/2002 - 06/05/2002

=item New & Changed

 - tmsql.pm - MySQL 'LIMIT rows' clause generation
 - uauth.pm - attempting to use a Windows2000 ADSI, 
   see issues in the source code
 - uauth.pm, wg.pm - case insensitive sorting
 - notes.cgi - update for indexes
 - gwo.cgi   - update for indexes, may be not useful
 - Bus.pm -debug slot levels
 - Bus.pm -iurl  slot added
 - upws.pm  - using icons based on -iurl slot value
 - all printed HTML tags and attributes are lowercase as from 
   CGI module
 - tm.pm - image toolbar using -iurl slot, uncomment at the 
   beginning of the source to disable



=head2 15/10/2001 - 23/03/2002

Implemented and Documented.

=item ToDo

  -  -dpath, -ppath, -purl default values review
  -  username SSL value review
  -  naming review
  -  review & test & debug



=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Andrew V Makarow <makarow at mail.com>

=cut


