=head1 NAME

Reaction::Manual - The Index of The Manual

=head1 DESCRIPTON

Reaction is basically an extended MVC framework built upon L<Catalyst>.

=head1 GENERAL SECTIONS OF THE MANUAL

=head2 L<Reaction::Manual::Intro>

A code-free introduction to the motivation and philosophy behind Reaction.

=head2 L<Reaction::Manual::Glossary>

Definition of terms, as used in the Reaction project.

=cut


=begin TODO

=head2 L<Reaction::Manual::Example>

A simple, working example, with minimal explanation.

=head2 L<Reaction::Manual::Tutorial>

A step-by-step example, building up the various parts and explaining each step.

=head2 L<Reaction::Manual::Cookbook>

Working code snippets to accomplish various goals.

=head2 L<Reaction::Manual::FAQ>

Frequently asked, occasionally answered questions.

=end TODO



=head1 SPECIFIC PARTS OF THE MANUAL

=head2 L<Reaction::Manual::RenderPage>

Documents the page-rendering pipeline.  Look here to find out how Views, 
ViewPorts, and RenderingContexts work together.

=head2 L<Reaction::Manual::Templates>

Explores the skinning system, and examines how templates are configured.

=head2 L<Reaction::Manual::Internals>

For those interested in the innards of Reaction.


=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 

=item * L<Catalyst::Manual>

=item * L<DBIx::Class::Manual>

=item * L<Moose>

=item * L<Template::Toolkit>

=back

=head1 SUPPORT

IRC: Join #reaction on irc.perl.org

=head1 AUTHORS

See L<Reaction::Class> for authors for authors.

=head1 LICENSE

See L<Reaction::Class> for the license.

=cut
