=head1 NAME

UniEvent - Object-oriented, fast and extendable event loop abstraction framework with Perl and C++ interface.



=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use UniEvent;
    
    my $timer = UniEvent::Timer->create($interval, sub { ... }); 

    my $signal = UniEvent::Signal->create(SIGHUP, sub {...});
    
    my $client = UniEvent::Tcp->new;
    $client->use_ssl();
    $client->connect($host, $port);
    $client->write($data);
    $client->read_callback(sub {
        my ($self, $data, $err) = @_;
        ...
    });
    
    my $server = UniEvent::Tcp->new;
    $server->use_ssl;
    $server->bind($host, $port);
    $server->listen;
    $server->connection_callback(sub {
        my ($self, $client, $err) = @_;
        $client->write("hello");
        $client->read_callback(sub { ... });
        $client->eof_callback(sub { ... });
    });
   
    Fs::stat($path, sub { ... });
    
    UniEvent::Loop->default->run;



=head1 DESCRIPTION

UniEvent is an extendable object-oriented event loop framework. It's also an abstraction layer on top of event loop which
provides engine-independent API (like L<AnyEvent>).

This module is an XS port of the very fast C++ panda::unievent framework.

The main feature is that it supports implementing third-party plugins (protocol adapters) in C++/XS
(see L<XS::Manifesto>) and therefore without any perfomance penalties. UniEvent support multiple backends
(libuv is the only implemented at the moment).



=head1 LOOP

The heart of event programming is an event loop object. This object runs the loop and polls for all registered events (handles).

You can create as many loops as you wish but you can only run one loop at a time. Each loop only polls for events registred with this loop.

    my $loop = UE::Loop->new;
    my $timer = UE::timer 10, sub {...}, $loop;
    $loop->run; # timer will fire every 10 seconds

By default, one loop (which is called main or default) is automatically created for you and is accessible as

    UE::Loop->default;
    
All event handles (watchers) will register in default loop if you don't specify a loop in their constructor.

    my $timer = UE::timer 10, sub {...}; # registered in default loop
    UE::Loop->default->run;

When you run

    $loop->run;
    
The execution flow will not return until there are no more active handles in the loop or loop stop() is called from some callback.

    $loop->stop;
    
Each handle has a strong refence to it's event loop so that loop will not be destroyed until you loose all refs to it and all it's handles are destroyed.
The default loop is never destroyed.



=head1 HANDLES (WATCHERS)

There are a number of different handle classes to watch for different events like timers, signals, tcp and udp handles, filesystem operations,
and so on. You can find detailed description of each handle class in reference.

Each handle object binds to a specific loop upon creation. Re-binding a handle to a different loop object after creation is not supported.
A handle will watch for events as soon as you run the loop it was bound to.


=head2 Timer

Timer handle invokes callback periodically at some interval (may be fractional).

See L<UniEvent::Timer> for details.


=head2 Signal

Signal handle watches for signal events.

    my $signal = UE::signal SIGINT(), sub {
        finish_stuff();
        exit 1;
    };
    
You can get signal constant from C<UniEvent::Signal::SIGxxx()> or from any perl module that provides it.

Signal will not interrupt your program and the callback is invoked as soon as possible when it's safe to do so.

UniEvent replaces signal watcher in C<libc> so you MUST NOT mix it with perl's %SIG callbacks for the same signal numbers.

See L<UniEvent::Signal> for details.


=head2 Idle

Idle handle invokes callback when the loop is idle, i.e. there are no new events after polling for i/o, timer, etc. On each loop iteration.

Normally, loop polls for events with some suitable timeout. If an idle handle is started, the timeout is 0. This means that your process will consume
all available CPU resources until idle handle is stopped.

This is useful when you want to do some expensive work but you don't want to block process and you want to continue processing new events as they
occur. IN this case you can setup and idle handle and do some small chunk of work on each callback invocation and then remove the idle handle when
you're done.

    my $idle = UE::idle sub {
        if (my $job = @stuff_to_do) {
            # do the job
        } else {
            $idle = undef;
        }
    };

See L<UniEvent::Idle> for details.


=head2 Prepare/Check

C<Prepare> handles will run the given callback once per loop iteration, right before polling for i/o.

C<Check> handles will run the given callback once per loop iteration, right after polling for i/o.

See L<UniEvent::Prepare> and L<UniEvent::Check> for details.


=head2 TCP

TCP handles are used to represent both TCP streams and servers.

    my $tcp = UE::Tcp->new;
    $tcp->connect($host, $port); # async resolve and connect
    $tcp->write("data"); # will write when connected
    $tcp->read_callback(sub {
        my ($tcp, $data, $err) = @_;
        ...
    });
    ...
    $tcp->disconnect;
    
    $tcp = UE::Tcp->new;
    $tcp->bind($host, $port);
    $tcp->listen;
    $tcp->connection_callback(sub {
        my ($server, $client, $err) = @_;
        $client->read_callback(sub { ... });
        ...
    });

See L<UniEvent::Tcp> for details.


=head2 Pipe

Pipe handles provide an abstraction over streaming files on Unix (including local domain sockets, pipes, and FIFOs) and named pipes on Windows.

See L<UniEvent::Pipe> for details.


=head2 TTY

TTY handles represent a stream for the console.

See L<UniEvent::Tty> for details.


=head2 UDP

UDP handles encapsulate UDP communication for both clients and servers.

See L<UniEvent::Udp> for details.


=head2 I/O poll

Poll handles are used to watch file descriptors for readability, writability and disconnection.

NOTE: If you want to connect, write, and read from network connections or make a network server,
you'd better use more convenient and more efficient cross-platform C<tcp>, C<udp>, C<pipe>, etc... handles.
Also those handles make use of fast I/O completion ports (IOCP) on Windows which is not possible with pure I/O poll handle.

The purpose of poll handles is to enable integrating external libraries that rely on the event loop to signal it about the socket status changes.


    my $h = UE::poll $filehande_or_fileno, UE::Poll::READABLE | UE::Poll::WRITABLE, sub {
        my ($handle, $events, $err) = @_;
        ...
    };


=head2 Filesystem events

FS Event handles allow the user to monitor a given path for changes, for example, if the file was renamed or there was a generic change in it.
This handle uses the best backend for the job on each platform.

    my $handle = UE::fs_event $path, UE::FsEvent::CHANGE, sub {
        my ($handle, $path, $events, $err) = @_;
        # file $path changed
    };
    
See L<UniEvent::FsEvent> for details.


=head2 Filesystem poll

FS Poll handles allow the user to monitor a given path for changes.
Unlike C<FsEvent>, fs poll handles use C<stat> to detect when a file has changed so they can work on file systems where fs event handles can’t.

    my $handle = UE::fs_poll $path, $interval, sub {
        my ($handle, $prev_stat, $cur_stat, $err) = @_;
        ...
    };

See L<UniEvent::FsPoll> for details.


=head2 HOLDING HANDLES

UniEvent does not hold a strong reference for created handle objects. You must hold them by yourself otherwise no events will be watched for.

    UE::timer 1, sub {...}; # timer is destroyed immediately as you didn't hold it
    UE::Loop->default->run; # no events to watch, run() will return immediately
    
Usually you have an object to place a refence to handle to. However sometimes it is convenient to capture handle in callback. Keep in mind that if
you do this

    my $timer = UE::Timer->new($loop);
    $timer->start(1, sub {
        ...
        if (...) { $timer->stop }
    });

yes, you will hold the timer, however you will create a cyclic reference timer -> callback -> timer and thus create a memory leak.
This code will stop the timer but will never destroy it. To remove cyclic reference, you need to break the cycle

    my $timer = UE::Timer->new($loop);
    $timer->start(1, sub {
        ...
        if (...) {
            $timer->stop;
            $timer = undef; # release captured variable
        }
    });

or

    my $timer = UE::Timer->new($loop);
    $timer->start(1, sub {
        ...
        if (...) {
            $timer->stop;
            $timer->event->remove_all; # remove all callbacks
        }
    });



=head1 EVENT CALLBACKS

Each handle provides several methods for setting event callbacks.

The naming rule for such methods is usually as follows:

=over

=item

If a handle provides only single type of event (like L<UniEvent::Timer>, L<UniEvent::Idle>, etc...),
then these methods are named C<callback()> and C<event()>.

    $timer->callback(sub { ... });
    $timer->event->add(sub { ... });

=item

If a handle provides several types of events (like any of L<UniEvent::Stream>'s ancestors, L<UniEvent::Udp>, etc...),
then these methods are named C<xxxx_callback()> and C<xxxx_event()>, when C<xxxx> is an event name.

    $tcp->read_callback(sub { ... });
    $tcp->write_event->add(sub { ... });

=back

A handle can hold any number of callbacks for each event type. A callback will receive certain parameters which is documented in each handle's docs.
The first parameter is always the handle object it is set to.

Calling C<event()> method returns L<XS::Framework::CallbackDispatcher> object which is a special container for callbacks.
To add several callbacks, simply call C<add()> method several times on that object.

    $timer->event->add(sub { ... });
    $timer->event->add(sub { ... });
    
Keep in mind that the callbacks call order by default is reverse, i.e. the last added callback is called first.
This behaviour can be changed, see L<XS::Framework::CallbackDispatcher> docs.

To remove a certain callback, call C<remove()> with corresponding subroutine reference.

    my $cb = sub { ... };
    $timer->event->add($cb);
    $timer->event->remove($cb);

An anonymous callback can remove itself like this:

    $timer->event->add(sub {
        my $timer = shift;
        if (...) {
            $timer->event->remove(__SUB__);
        }
    });

To remove all callbacks from an event object, call C<remove_all()>.

    $timer->event->add(sub { ... });
    $timer->event->add(sub { ... });
    $timer->event->remove_all; # removes both callbacks

Method C<callback()> is an efficient shortcut which sets a single callback removing any previously set callbacks if any

    $timer->callback(sub { ... }); # same as $timer->event->remove_all() + $timer->event->add(sub { ... })    


=head4 EVENT LISTENER

Instead of setting callbacks for each event type

    $tcp->read_callback(sub { ... });
    $tcp->write_callback(sub { ... });

you can set an event listener object which can watch for all events types.

    package MyListener;
    
    sub on_read { ... }
    sub on_write { ... }
    sub on_shutdown { ... }
    sub on_disconnect { ... }
    ...
    
    $tcp->event_listener(MyListener->new);

Event listener can be object of any type. If event listener is set, a handle will call methods C<on_xxxx()> on it, where C<xxxx> is an event name.
The parameters are the same as for callback version (first param is the event listener object itself, of course, second is the handle object, and other
params are according to event documentation).

An event listener object can be set to multiple handles.

    package MyListener;
    
    sub on_timer { ... }
    sub on_check { ... }
    ...

    my $lst = MyListener->new;
    $timer->event_listener($lst);
    $check->event_listener($lst);

Event listener can't be set via simple API C<UE::check($callback, $loop)>. Only subroutines are accepted there.

Event listener does not disable callbacks, i.e. if both event listener object and callbacks are set to a handle, both will be called
(first callbacks, then event listener's method).

Event listener is convenient when some object makes use of several handles and wants to listen events from them. Then instead of setting many callbacks
it can set itself as a listener for those handles. This saves cpu time and can make the code clearer.

    package MyClass;
    
    sub new {
        my $self = bless {}, shift;
        $self->{timer} = UE::Timer->new;
        $self->{timer}->start(10);
        $self->{timer}->event_listener($self, 1);
        
        $self->{tcp} = UE::Tcp->new;
        $self->{tcp}->connect($host, $port);
        $self->{tcp}->event_listener($self, 1);
    }
    
    sub on_timer {
        my ($self, $timer) = @_;
        ...
    }
    
    sub on_connect {
        my ($self, $tcp, $err) = @_;
        ...
    }
    
Second argument to C<event_listener> is an C<weak> flag. If set to C<true>, handle will hold an event listener object by a weak reference.
In our example, setting this flag is mandatory, because otherwise a memory leak would occur due to indirect
cyclic reference $self -> timer/tcp handle -> $self (event listener)

In the previous examples with C<MyListener> class, C<weak> flag should NOT be set as we need strong reference there, otherwise, when local variable
C<$lst> goes out of scope, event listener object will be destroyed and removed from all handles it was set to.


=head1 ASYNC DNS

UniEvent supports for trully asyncronous resolve (async DNS). You may use it indirectly, for example via $tcp->connect($host, $port) method
or directly like this:

    my $resolver = UniEvent::Resolver->new($loop);
    $resolver->resolve({
        node       => 'myhost.com',
        use_cache  => 1,
        hints      => {family => UniEvent::AF_INET},
        on_resolve => sub {
            my ($addr, $err) = @_;
            say $addr->[0]->ip;
        },
    });
    $loop->run;

For more details, see L<UniEvent::Resolver>, L<UniEvent::Tcp>.



=head1 FILESYSTEM ASYNC OPERATIONS

UniEvent provides a wide variety of cross-platform sync and async file system operations. For example:

    UE::Fs::stat($file, sub {
        my ($stat, $err) = @_;
        ...
    });
    
    UE::Fs::mkstemp($template, sub {
        my ($path, $fd, $err) = @_;
        ...
    });
    
    UE::Loop->default->run;

See L<UniEvent::Fs> for details.



=head1 UTILITY FUNCTIONS

UniEvent provides a number of cross-platform utility functions described in C<FUNCTIONS> section of L<UniEvent> package. Almost all of them are
syncronous and not related to an event loop.

    my $info = UniEvent::cpu_info();
    my $num_cpus = @$info;
    for (1..$num_cpus) {
        ...
        fork();
        ...
    }

See L<UniEvent/FUNCTIONS> section.



=head1 OPTIONAL ERRORS

Some functions and methods in L<UniEvent> uses optional error return.
Such functions instead of throwing an exception (if any error occurs) can return that error if asked to do so.

You can choose desired behaviour by calling those function in certain context.

There are two types of function / methods returning optional exceptions:

=over

=item functions with result

If you call such a function normally, in scalar context, it will throw an exception if anything goes wrong, for example.
    
    my $sockaddr = $tcp->sockaddr; # either return a sockaddr or throw an exception

It's okay if you don't bother about possible errors and agree to die if an error occurs.
However if you desire to catch errors and process them, then exceptions are not always a convenient way and definitely not efficient.
It could be more desirable to get the error directly as return value. To do so simply call such function in two-value context and it will return a
possible error as the second value.

    my ($sockaddr, $error) = $tcp->sockaddr; # never throws

In this case if no errors occur, C<$error> will be C<undef>. Otherwise C<$sockaddr> will be undef and C<$error> will be an error object
L<XS::ErrorCode> or L<XS::STL::ErrorCode>. You can inspect that object to find out what exactly happened.

Calling such function in void context is the same as calling in scalar context (it will throw an exception in case of error).

=item functions with no result (void)

If you call such a function normally, in void context, it will throw an exception if anything goes wrong, for example.

    $tcp->open($socket); # either succeed or throws

If called in scalar context, such function will return just an "ok" flag and will not throw an exception.

    my $ok = $tcp->open($socket); # never throws
    
    unless ($tcp->open($socket)) { # never throws
        # failover somehow
    }

If called in two-value context it will return an "ok" flag and an error if any.

    my ($ok, $error) = $tcp->open($socket); # never throws
    say $error if $error;
    
=back

Such functions are marked in documentation as L<May return error|UniEvent/"OPTIONAL ERRORS">

NOTE: async functions and methods doesn't use this approach, they always pass errors as an argument to async callback and never throws.



=head1 FORK

UniEvent is completely fork-aware. It automatically does all the stuff needed after fork.
You can just fork() and run any loop after that including the ones that were in use in the master process.

However keep in mind, that if you run the same loop in child process that was running in master process, you should probably remove the master's
process event handles to avoid double execution. This is especially important for I/O handles like tcp, udp, pipe and so on, because no usable
behaviour will occur if you watch for the same descriptior with 2 or more different handles.

That's why it is often more convenient to run different loop in child process than to remove all master's recources from the same loop.

    # master
    my $loop  = UE::Loop->new;
    my $timer = UE::timer 1, sub {...}, $loop;
    my $tcp   = UE::Tcp->new();
    ...
    
    fork();
    
    #child
    my $child_loop = UE::Loop->new;
    ...add events
    $child_loop->run;



=head1 THREADS

UniEvent supports perl threads, however perl threads support is highly experimental and requires all XS modules in stack to support them.
Threads behaviour in perl and C/C++ is completely different so it requires a huge amount of magic for XS module which ports a complex C++ framework to work.

UniEvent depends on a number of XS modules and a number of XS modules depend on UniEvent. If there will be a single perl-threads-unaware thing, the
app may crash at some point.

Event loops and handles are NOT thread-safe, you can't run or access the same loop/handles in different threads.
The only exception is L<UniEvent::Async> handle which is thread-safe and designed for inter-thread communication.

In threaded perl UniEvent::Loop->default is thread-local (different in each thread), so you can safely create handles and run default loop in each thread.

For safety, UniEvent objects are non-clonable, i.e. after creating a thread, all UniEvent objects (like loop, handles, requests, etc)
that existed before threading will become C<undef> in child thread.

NOTE: using threaded perl and NOT creating a second thread is fully supported and operational.



=head1 SHORT API

C<UE> is an alias for C<UniEvent>. You can use it whereever you would use C<UniEvent>.

    my $t = UniEvent::Timer->new;
    my $t = UE::Timer->new; # the same

However keep in mind, that created objects are always of C<UniEvent::XXXX> class. It matters in these kind of checks:

    if (ref($t) eq 'UniEvent::Timer') # ok
    if (ref($t) eq 'UE::Timer')       # WRONG!



=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 check($callback, [$loop = default])

=head2 fs_event($path, $flags, $callback, [$loop = default])

=head2 fs_poll($path, $interval, $callback, [$loop = default])

=head2 idle($callback, [$loop = default])

=head2 poll($fd, $events, $callback, [$loop = default])

=head2 prepare($callback, [$loop = default])

=head2 signal($signum, $callback, [$loop = default])

=head2 signal_once($signum, $callback, [$loop = default])

=head2 timer($repeat, $callback, [$loop = default])

=head2 timer_once($initial, $callback, [$loop = default])

A shortcuts for corresponding UniEvent::XXXXX->create(...) call.

    my $timer = UniEvent::timer($repeat, $cb);
    my $timer = UniEvent::Timer->create($repeat, $cb); # the same

See corresponding package's docs for more info.


=head2 hostname()

Returns current machine host name

L<May return error|UniEvent/"OPTIONAL ERRORS">


=head2 uname()

Retrieves system information. Data includes the operating system name, release, version, and machine.

    {
       machine => 'x86_64'
       release => '4.19.0-14-amd64'
       sysname => 'Linux'
       version => '#1 SMP Debian 4.19.171-2 (2021-01-30)'
    }

L<May return error|UniEvent/"OPTIONAL ERRORS">


=head2 get_rss()

Gets the resident set size (RSS) for the current process (in bytes).

L<May return error|UniEvent/"OPTIONAL ERRORS">


=head2 get_free_memory()

Gets the amount of free memory available in the system, as reported by the kernel (in bytes).


=head2 get_total_memory()

Gets the total amount of physical memory in the system (in bytes).


=head2 interface_info()

Gets address information about the network interfaces on the system. Sample output:

    [{
         address     => 127.0.0.1:0,      # Net::SockAddr
         is_internal => 1,
         name        => 'lo',
         netmask     => 255.0.0.0:0,      # Net::SockAddr
         phys_addr   => "\0\0\0\0\0\0"
     },
     {
         address     => 10.10.10.92:0,    # Net::SockAddr
         is_internal => 0,
         name        => 'wlp2s0',
         netmask     => 255.255.254.0:0,  # Net::SockAddr
         phys_addr   => "\274\250\246\203S\$"
     }
    ]
    ...

L<May return error|UniEvent/"OPTIONAL ERRORS">


=head2 cpu_info()

Gets information about the CPUs on the system. Sample output:

    [{
       cpu_times => {
                      idle => 168327400,
                      irq  => 655200,
                      nice => 1495000,
                      sys  => 3045400,
                      user => 11124000
                    },
       model     => 'Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-8550U CPU @ 1.80GHz',
       speed     => 800
     },
     {
       cpu_times => {
                      idle => 168750000,
                      irq  => 598300,
                      nice => 1300800,
                      sys  => 2522600,
                      user => 11583100
                    },
       model     => 'Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-8550U CPU @ 1.80GHz',
       speed     => 800
     }
    ];

L<May return error|UniEvent/"OPTIONAL ERRORS">


=head2 get_rusage()

Gets the resource usage measures for the current process. Some platforms might not
have all fields. Sample output:

    {
       idrss    => 0,           # integral unshared data size
       inblock  => 0,           # block input operations
       isrss    => 0,           # integral unshared stack size
       ixrss    => 0,           # integral shared memory size
       majflt   => 0,           # page faults (hard page faults)
       maxrss   => 50512,       # maximum resident set size
       minflt   => 9810,        # page reclaims (soft page faults)
       msgrcv   => 0,           # IPC messages received
       msgsnd   => 0,           # IPC messages sent
       nivcsw   => 0,           # involuntary context switches
       nsignals => 0,           # signals received
       nswap    => 0,           # swaps
       nvcsw    => 54,          # voluntary context switches
       oublock  => 0,           # block output operations
       stime    => 0.032753,    # user CPU time used
       utime    => 0.356583     # system CPU time used
     };
     
L<May return error|UniEvent/"OPTIONAL ERRORS">     


=head2 get_random($size)

Returns string filled with C<$size> trully random bytes. May block until needed amount of bytes become available.

L<May return error|UniEvent/"OPTIONAL ERRORS">


=head2 get_random($size, $callback, [$loop = default])

Async version of C<get_random()>.

Callback will be called with 3 arguments: resulting string, L<XS::STL::ErrorCode> error object if any and request object.

Returns L<UniEvent::Request::Random> object.

    get_random(1000, sub {
        my ($data, $err) = @_;
    });
    UE::Loop->default->run;


=head2 default_backend()

Returns current default L<UniEvent> backend.

Default backend is used when you create a L<UniEvent::Loop> object without specifying backend.

By default, default backend is C<UniEvent::Backend::UV>.


=head2 set_default_backend($backend)

Sets default L<UniEvent> backend.

It can only be set very early (usually on program startup), when default loop is not yet created (not accessed).
This method will throw an exception if it's too late for changing default backend.



=head1 CONSTANTS

There are many constants in C<UniEvent> framework. Most of them are defined and documented in packages they are used with.

Here is the list of constants that are defined in main C<UniEvent> package because they are used with multiple packages.

=head2 AF_INET

=head2 AF_INET6

=head2 AF_UNSPEC

=head2 PF_INET

=head2 PF_INET6

=head2 PF_UNSPEC

=head2 SOCK_STREAM

=head2 SOCK_DGRAM



=head1 References

L<UE>

L<UniEvent::Check>

L<UniEvent::Error>

L<UniEvent::Fs>

L<UniEvent::FsEvent>

L<UniEvent::FsPoll>

L<UniEvent::Handle>

L<UniEvent::Idle>

L<UniEvent::Loop>

L<UniEvent::Pipe>

L<UniEvent::Poll>

L<UniEvent::Prepare>

L<UniEvent::ResolveError>

L<UniEvent::Resolver>

L<UniEvent::Signal>

L<UniEvent::Stream>

L<UniEvent::Streamer>

L<UniEvent::SystemError>

L<UniEvent::Tcp>

L<UniEvent::Timer>

L<UniEvent::Tty>

L<UniEvent::Udp>

L<UniEvent::Backend::UV>

L<UniEvent::Streamer::FileInput>

L<UniEvent::Streamer::FileOutput>

L<UniEvent::Streamer::StreamInput>

L<UniEvent::Streamer::StreamOutput>

L<UniEvent::Test::Async>



=head1 SEE ALSO

L<AnyEvent>

L<libuv|http://libuv.org/>



=head1 AUTHOR

Pronin Oleg <syber@cpan.org>

Grigory Smorkalov <g.smorkalov@crazypanda.ru>

Ivan Baidakou <i.baydakov@crazypanda.ru>

Crazy Panda LTD



=head1 LICENSE

You may distribute this code under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
