=head1 NAME

Choosing the Right Strategy

=head1 Description

This document discusses various mod_perl setup strategies used to get
the best performance and scalability of the services.

=head1 Do it like I do it!?

There is no such thing as the B<right> strategy in the web server
business, although there are many wrong ones. Never believe a person
who says: I<"Do it this way, this is the best!">. As the old saying
goes: I<"Trust but verify">. There are too many technologies out there
to choose from, and it would take an enormous investment of time and
money to try to validate each one before deciding which is the best
choice for your situation.

With this in mind, I will present some ways of using standalone
mod_perl, and some combinations of mod_perl and other technologies.
I'll describe how these things work together, offer my opinions on the
pros and cons of each, the relative degree of difficulty in installing
and maintaining them, and some hints on approaches that should be used
and things to avoid.

To be clear, I will not address all technologies and tools, but limit
this discussion to those complementing mod_perl.

Please let me stress it again: B<do not> blindly copy someone's setup
and hope for a good result. Choose what is best for your situation --
it might take B<some> effort to find out what that is.

In this chapter we will discuss

=over

=item * Deployment of mod_perl in Overview, with the pros and cons.

=item * Alternative architectures for running one and two servers.

=item * Proxy servers (Squid, and Apache's mod_proxy).

=back


=head1 Maintainers

Maintainer is the person(s) you should contact with updates,
corrections and patches.

=over

=item *

Stas Bekman E<lt>stas (at) stason.orgE<gt>

=back


=head1 Authors

=over

=item *

Stas Bekman E<lt>stas (at) stason.orgE<gt>

=back

Only the major authors are listed above. For contributors see the
Changes file.


=cut

