=pod

=head1 NAME

CGI::PathRequest - get file info in a cgi environment

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	use CGI::PathRequest;
	
	my $r = new CGI::PathRequest;

   if( $r->set('/home/me/public_html/documents') ){
      $r->is_in_DOCUMENT_ROOT or warn 'not in document root, sure you wanna serve?';
      
	
	if ( $f->is_dir ){ 
		print $f->filename . " is a directory in " . $f->rel_loc ." it contains ". $f->ls_count. " entries." ; 
	};	
	
=head1 DESCRIPTION

Conventions used in this document:

resource = the main file requested, be it a directory, file, etc.

This is kind of my swiss army knife of dealing with files in a cgi environment.
It's mainly geared for taking requests from a client and setting default information about that resource.
The constructor is told the relative path to a file (or directory) and from that you can ask a lot of
really useful things like, relative path, absoltue path, filename, filesize, absolute location, relative
location, etc. Things you normally have to regex for, they are already done here.

CGI::PathRequest inherits L<File::PathInfo> and all its methods.

=head1 new()

Constructor. Takes hash ref as argument. Each key is a parameter.
If requested does not exist, new returns undef.
	
	my $rq = CGI::PathRequest->new;	

=head2 Optional Parameters

	my $rq = CGI::PathRequest->new({

		param_name => 'path', 		
		DOCUMENT_ROOT => '/home/superduper/html', 
		SERVER_NAME => 'superduper.com',		
		rel_path => $url, 		
		cgi => $cgi, 		
	
	});

=over 4

=item param_name

if you are taking data from a form imput via POST or GET , by default we are looking for a 
cgi param named 'path' - this can be overridden

=item rel_path

specify the relative path to the file or dir we want

=item default

if POST or GET do not yield a path and that path exists on disk, then default to what rel_path?
Defaults to / (which would be your DOCUMENT ROOT )

=item DOCUMENT_ROOT 

Will try to determine automatically from ENV DOCUMENT_ROOT unless provided.
Croaks if not determinded.

=item cgi

Pass it an already existing cgi object for re use.

=item SERVER_NAME

The name of your server or domain.

=back

=head1 abs_path()

Absolute path on disk. Watch it, all /../ and links are resolved!

=head1 rel_path()

=head1 abs_loc()

The directory upon which the requested resource sits, everything but the filename


=head1 rel_loc()

Like abs_loc() but relative to ENV DOCUMENT_ROOT

=head1 filename()

Returns the filename portion of the file

=head1 filename_pretty()

Returns the filename, but prettyfied.
Turns 'how_are_you.pdf' to 'How Are You'.

=head1 filetype()

Returns 'd' if directory, 'f' if file.

=head1 url()

Returns how this file would be accessed via a browser.

=head1 www()

Returns domain name of current site.

=head1 ext()

Returns filename's extension.

=head1 is_root()

Returns true if the request is the same as ENV DOCUMENT_ROOT

=head1 is_html()

Returns boolean, accepts no argument. File is text and has htm type ext.

=head1 EXTENDED METHODS

These are methods that populate on call, that is, the values are not 
fed before you ask for them. If you are creating many CGI::PathRequest objects
in one run and you use these, they should slow your process.

=head2 elements()

Returns an array ref of all data elements that aare/can be defined for this resource.

	my $elements = $r->elements;



=head2 get_content() and get_content_encoded() 

Get contents of resource if is_text() returns true, returns undef on failure or
zero size. The encoded variant escapes for html.

	$r->get_content();


=head2 get_excerpt() and get_excerpt_encoded()

Get first x characters from file content if get_content() is or can be defined
returns undef on failure. The encoded variant escapes for html.
The excerpt is ripped of any html.

	$r->get_excerpt;

=head2 filesize()

Returns filesize in bites

	$r->filesize;


=head2 filesize_pretty()

Returns filesize in k, with the letter k in the end returns 0k if filesize is 0 

	$r->filesize_pretty;


=head2 ctime()

Returns ctime, unix time

	$r->ctime;


=head2 ctime_pretty()

Returns ctime formatted to yyyy/mm/dd hh:mm by default

	$r->ctime_pretty;


=head2 atime()

Returns atime, unix time 

	$r->atime;


=head2 atime_pretty()

Returns atime formatted to yyyy/mm/dd hh:mm by default

	$r->atime_pretty;


=head2 mtime()

Returns mtime, unix time 

	$r->mtime;


=head2 mtime_pretty()

Returns mtime formatted to yyyy/mm/dd hh:mm by default

	$r->mtime_pretty;




=head2 is_dir()

Returns true if it is a directory

=head2 is_empty_dir()

Returns true if it is an empty directory, slow, feeds ls, lsf, and lsd.

=head2 is_file()

returns true if it is a file 

=head2 is_image()

Returns true if mime type is an image type

	$r->is_image;

=head2 is_binary()

Returns true if resource was binary, directories return true

	$r->is_binary;

=head2 is_text()

Returns true if resource is text ( according to -T )

	$r->is_text;


	

=head2 mime_type()
	
Returns mime type returned by File::MMagic. If the resource is a directory,
returns undef.

	$r->mime_type;
	

=head2 alt()

Returns same as filename_pretty(), for use with an image alt tag, etc

	$r->alt;
	


=head1 DIRECTORY METHODS

All directory methods issue warnings and return undef if the resource is not a directory.

=head2 ls()

Returns array ref. listing of files if the resource is a directory
returns undef if it is not a dir.
returns all files and all dirs sorted in array ref.
returns empty array ref [] if none found
excludes . and ..

=head2 lsd()

returns sorted array ref listing of subdirs if resource is a directory.
returns undef if it is not a directory.
returns empty array ref [] if none found
excludes . and .. by default.

=head2 lsf()

returns array ref listing of files
returns undef if it is not a dir
returns only files sorted
returns empty array ref [] if none found
excludes . and ..

=head2 ls_count(), lsd_count(), and lsf_count()

returns count of elements for all files, for directories, and for files, if the
resource is a directory. If the resource is not a directory, returns undef.

=head2 is_empty_dir()

returns boolean true or false. returns undef if resource is not a directory.


=head1 ERROR METHODS

See File::PathInfo for details.


=head1 get_datahash()

Returns hash with data, abs_path, rel_path, etc etc



=head1 METHODS FOR WITH HTML::Template


=head2 nav_prepped()

returns array ref for loop for HTML::Template
This is a place people can click back to go to previous directories.
which should be:

	<!-- BEGIN NAV-->
	
	<h4> <a href="?rel_path=/">[ home ]</a> 
	<TMPL_LOOP NAV>
	 <TMPL_IF LAST>	
	  &#xBB; <TMPL_VAR FILENAME>
	 <TMPL_ELSE>
	  &#xBB; <a href="?rel_path=<TMPL_VAR REL_PATH>"><TMPL_VAR FILENAME></a>
	 </TMPL_IF>
	</TMPL_LOOP>
	</h4>
	
	<!--END NAV-->

The vars that are returned for each are:

	FILENAME, ABS_LOC, REL_PATH, REL_LOC, FILETYPE, EXT

A problem right now is that if you are requesting / (document root) then the 
returned value is []- which sets off warnings in HTML::Template

=cut





=head2 ls_prepped(), lsd_prepped() and lsf_prepped()

Alike ls lsf and lsd, returns array ref with hashes representing
directory listing excluding . and ..
in hash form, suitable for html template.
for example, if your template has

	<TMPL_LOOP LS>
		<TMPL_VAR FILENAME>
		<TMPL_VAR REL_PATH>
				
	</TMPL_LOOP>

You would feed it as 

	$html_template_object->param( LS => $cms->ls_prepped ); 

Returns empty array ref on none present [], that way it wont error on nothing there when
you assign it to the tmpl loop

The same for lsd_prepped() and lsf_prepped()
The name of the TMPL_VAR will be the same as the name of the method, (LS, LSF, LSD).

The TMPL_VAR set are :

	rel_path, rel_loc, abs_path, abs_loc, filename, is_file, is_dir, filetype

=head2 get_datahash_prepped()

returns hash ref with data suitable for HTML::Template, none of the data that are arrays, etc are included
For example:

	$html_template_object->param( %{ $r->get_datahash_prepped } ); 

Your template could say:

	<TMPL_IF IS_DIR>
		<p>This is a directory, it has <TMPL_VAR LSD_COUNT> sub directories and 
		<TMPL_VAR LSF_COUNT> files.</p>
	</TMPL_IF> 

	<TMPL_IF IS_TEXT>
		<p>The file <TMPL_VAR FILENAME> in <TMPL_VAR REL_LOC> is a
		<TMPL_VAR FILESIZE_PRETTY> text file, created on <TMPL_VAR CTIME_PRETTY>.</p>
	
		<p><small> excerpt: <TMPL_VAR EXCERPT></small></p>		
	</TMPL_IF> 

Your HTML::Template object construction should include die_on_bad_params=>0 to make use of this.


=head1 PREREQUISITES

L<File::MMagic>, L<Carp>, L<File::PathInfo>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<File::PathInfo>, L<CGI>, L<Cwd>

=head1 TODO

option not to resolve symlinks

get rid of default.
if resource does not exist, just return undef.

=head1 CHANGES

a file requested which is not in DOCUMENT ROOT (symlink) 
no longer croaks module

=head1 AUTHOR

Leo Charre leo (at) leocharre (dot) com

L<http://leocharre.com>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<File::PathInfo>

=cut
