

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Compress::Huffman - Huffman encode a symbol table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    
    # Turn an alphabet in the form of a hash from symbols to
    # probabilities into a binary Huffman table.
    
    use Compress::Huffman;
    my $cf = Compress::Huffman->new ();
    my %symbols = (
        a => 0.5,
        b => 0.25,
        c => 0.125,
        d => 0.125,
    );
    $cf->symbols (\%symbols);
    my $table = $cf->table ();
    for my $k (sort keys %symbols) {
        print "$k: <$table->{$k}> ";
    }
    print "\n";
    
    # Turn an alphabet in the form of a hash from symbols to weights
    # into a tertiary Huffman table.
    
    $cf->symbols (\%symbols, size => 3, notprob => 1);
    
    my $table3 = $cf->table ();
    for my $k (sort keys %symbols) {
        print "$k: <$table3->{$k}> ";
    }
    print "\n";


produces output

    a: <1> b: <01> c: <000> d: <001> 
    a: <2> b: <1> c: <02> d: <01> 


(This example is included as L<F<synopsis.pl>|https://fastapi.metacpan.org/source/BKB/XS-Check-0.07/examples/synopsis.pl> in the distribution.)


=head1 VERSION

This documents version 0.07 of Compress-Huffman corresponding to
L<git commit 70439e9c1749bc36e8a0a404cf7cf7e418ff16d0|https://github.com/benkasminbullock/compress-huffman/commit/70439e9c1749bc36e8a0a404cf7cf7e418ff16d0> released on Fri Sep 1 14:55:57 2017 +0900.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Compress::Huffman converts a table of symbols and probabilities to a
Huffman encoded form.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

    my $cf = Compress::Huffman->new ();

This returns a new object.

=head2 symbols

    $cf->symbols (\%symbols);

This converts a table of symbols into a Huffman code. The keys of
C<%symbols> are any set of symbols you want to encode. The values of
C<%symbols> must be numeric (this is checked with
L<Scalar::Util/looks_like_number>). Usually a Huffman code is used to
compress a set of symbols associated with probability values, so
usually the numerical values of C<%symbols> should sum to one. If the
values of C<%symbols> do not sum to one, use the L</notprob> option.

This method takes the following options, supplied as a hash after the
initial hash reference:

=over

=item size

    $cf->symbols (\%symbols, size => 3);

This specifies the size of the output alphabet. Without any symbols
specified, the default is binary output, in other words the default
value for C<size> is two. For values of C<size> up to 10, the numerals
0 to 9 are used to encode the output. If C<size> is greater than 10,
specify an alphabet with the L</alphabet> option.

=item notprob

    my %symbols = (a => 1, b => 2, c => 3);
    $cf->symbols (\%symbols, notprob => 1);

This specifies that the values of C<%symbols> are not a probability
distribution. The function then calculates the probabilities of each
symbol by summing the values of C<%symbols> and dividing each value by
the calculated sum. In either case, the values of C<%symbols> must be
numeric.

=item alphabet

    $cf->symbols (\%symbols, alphabet => ['a', 'b', 'c']);

The default behaviour of L</symbols> is to form a Huffman code using
digits. The default Huffman code with L</size> equal to two (binary
Huffman encoding) encodes C<%symbols> using a string consisting of 0's
and 1's. For a different encoding, or if you set size to a value more
than ten, specify the alphabet of symbols using C<< alphabet =>
\@alphabet >>, where C<@alphabet> is the list of symbols you want to
use.

=item verbose

    $cf->symbols (\%symbols, verbose => 1);

Any true value turns on debugging messages.

=back

=head2 xl

    my $expected_length = $cf->xl ();

This returns the expected length of the Huffman encoding, which is the
sum of the probability of each symbol multiplied by the length of the
code associated with that symbol. Please see, for example, L</Elements
of Information Theory> for details.

=head2 encode_array

    my $huffout = $cf->encode (\@string);

Encode the string of symbols in C<@string> into a Huffman-encoded
format C<$huffout>. The return value is an array reference.

If C<@string> contains a symbol which is not in the symbol table, a
warning is printed and the symbol is skipped over.

=head2 encode

    my $huffout = $cf->encode (\@string);

Encode the symbols in C<@string> into a Huffman-encoded format
C<$huffout>. The behaviour is identical to L</encode_array> except
that the return value is a string.

    
    use utf8;
    use Compress::Huffman;
    my $ch = Compress::Huffman->new ();
    my %symbols = (Ʀ => 100, ƨ => 200, ƪ => 300, Ƭ => 400, Ʈ => 1000);
    $ch->symbols (\%symbols, notprob => 1);
    my $msg = $ch->encode ([qw/Ʀ ƨ ƪ Ƭ Ʈ/]);
    print "Huffman encoding is $msg\n";
    my $recovered = $ch->decode ($msg);
    print "Recovered @$recovered\n";
    


produces output

    Huffman encoding is 01100111010001
    Recovered Ʀ ƨ ƪ Ƭ Ʈ


=head2 decode

    my $string = $cf->decode ($huffout);

Decode the huffman-encoded C<$huffout> into symbols. The return value,
C<$string> in the example, is an array reference containing the
symbols supplied in C<symbols>. Please see L</encode> for an example.

=head2 table

    my $table = $cf->table ();

The return value is a hash reference which is the symbol-to-Huffman
code table within C<$cf>. This is not a copy, so it shouldn't be
altered by the user.

=head2 save

    my $saved = $n->save ();

Save the Huffman table in JSON format to C<$saved>.

This was added in version 0.04.

=head2 load

    my $n = Compress::Huffman->new ();
    $n->load ($saved);

Load a Huffman table in JSON format from C<$saved>.

This was added in version 0.04.

=head1 ALGORITHM

(This is copied from the documentation of L<Algorithm::Huffman>)

Here is an example illustrating the algorithm. Given the characters
and occurences

    a(15) b(7) c(6) d(6) e(5),

in the first step e and d are the rarest symbols, so we create this
new heap and tree structure:

    a(15) de(11) b(7) c(6)

          de
         /  \
     "0"/    \"1"
       d      e

Now combine the next two rarest characters, b and c:

    a(15) bc(13) de(11)

          de                bc
         /  \              /  \
     "0"/    \"1"      "0"/    \"1"
       d      e          b      c

Now combine the next two rarest characters, bc and de.

    a(15) bcde(24)

                  bcde
                /      \
           "0"/          \"1"
            /              \
          de                bc
         /  \              /  \
     "0"/    \"1"      "0"/    \"1"
       d      e          b      c

The next step unifies all the steps:

                               Huffman-Table
                                  /    \
                            "0"/          \"1"
                           /                  \
                       /                          \
                  bcde                              a
                /      \
           "0"/          \"1"
            /              \
          de                bc
         /  \              /  \
     "0"/    \"1"      "0"/    \"1"
       d      e          b      c


Finally this encoding table is created from the labels on the
branches:

     a    1
     b    010
     c    011
     d    000
     e    001

Huffman coding is ambiguous, and there is no rule defining what
element in the tree is ordered to the left or right, so it's also
possible to reverse the 0s and 1s to get:

     a    0
     b    100
     c    101
     d    110
     e    111

In the case of non-binary Huffman encodings, dummy elements may also
have to be added to the tree.

Please see L</References> for more information about Huffman
encodings.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over

=item Bad size $size for Huffman table, must be integer >= 2

(Fatal) The user attempted to make a Huffman table which isn't
possible.

=item Use $o->symbols (\%t, alphabet => ['a', 'b',...]) for table sizes bigger than 10

(Fatal) The user must supply an alphabet for the Huffman codes if size > 10

=item Symbol table has no entries

(Fatal) User supplied an empty hash reference in L</symbols>.

=item Non-numerical value '$s->{$k}' for key '$k'

(Fatal) User supplied a hash reference with a non-numerical value in
L</symbols>.

=item Input values don't sum to 1.0; use $o->symbols (\%s, notprob => 1) if not a probability distribution

(Fatal) User supplied a non-probability distribution hash table to
L</symbols>.

=item Symbol 'X' is not in the symbol table

(Warning) The user tried to encode a list of symbols with L</encode>
which contained a symbol C<X> which was not in the symbol table.

=item Input starting from XYZ was not Huffman encoded using this table

(Warning) The user tried to decode a Huffman-encoded string with
L</decode>, but it doesn't seem to have been encoded using the table
associated with the object.

=item Bad object

(Fatal) A user-supplied object didn't contain the correct tables.

=item Value N for symbol X is not a probability

(Fatal) A user-supplied value for symbol X was either greater than 1
or less than 0, and the user did not specify "notprob".

=item Negative weight N for symbol X

(Fatal) The weighting for symbol X was negative.

=back

=head1 BUGS

The module is slow for large symbol tables. For example a hash with
100,000 entries might take several minutes to finish building the
table.

Huffman encoding itself does not achieve any compression when there
are, for example, two symbols A and B with probabilities 0.001 and
0.999, since every symbol takes at least one bit of information to
encode. Arithmetic encoding and asymmetric numeral systems are two
forms of encoding designed to overcome this issue.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

L<JSON::Parse> and L<JSON::Create> are used by L</save> and L</load>
for storing the Huffman table. The module also uses the core modules
L<Carp>, L<Scalar::Util/looks_like_number> for detecting numbers, and
L<POSIX/ceil> to calculate the size of tables needed in encoding.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head2 CPAN modules

=over

=item L<Algorithm::Huffman>

Perl extension that implements the Huffman algorithm

Unfortunately this is 15 years old and L<seems to
fail all its
tests|http://matrix.cpantesters.org/?dist=Algorithm-Huffman+0.09> on
most platforms.

=item L<Compress::Huffman::Binary>

This module is by the same author as Compress::Huffman. It is intended
to compute the binary case of Huffman encoding. It's written in C and
should be faster than this module, but as of version 0.07, it is not complete.

=back

=head2 Other software

=over

=item L<Rosetta code examples|http://rosettacode.org/wiki/Huffman_coding>

This includes a Perl example.

=back

=head2 References

=over

=item Original article

David A. Huffman, "A Method for the Construction of Minimum-Redundancy
Codes", Proceedings of the Institute of Radio Engineers, volume 40,
number 9, pages 1098-1102, September 1952.

=item Elements of Information Theory

I<Elements of Information Theory> by Thomas Cover and Joy Thomas,
(either the first or second edition) details Huffman encoding.

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Ben Bullock, <bkb@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENCE

This package and associated files are copyright (C) 
2015-2017
Ben Bullock.

You can use, copy, modify and redistribute this package and associated
files under the Perl Artistic Licence or the GNU General Public
Licence.



