=head1 NAME

C<Devel::MAT::UserGuide> - a users' introduction to C<Devel::MAT>

=head1 OVERVIEW

The C<Devel::MAT> ecosystem allows developers of F<perl> programs to inspect
and analyse memory-related problems such as memory leaks, unexpected memory
consumption, or odd state. This is an "offline" analysis system, in the sense
that the analysis tools all run in a different process, possibly at a later
time, than the F<perl> process that is being analysed.

The basic workflow consists of two main stages: first a I<heap dump> file is
generated from the F<perl> process being debugged, at or around the time that
the problem becomes apparent, and secondly this file is loaded by an analysis
tool in order to inspect the contents.

These two stages are described here separately. It is important to note that
they don't have to be done at the same time, on the same F<perl> process, or
even on the same sort of machine. It is fully possible to capture the heap
from a process on, say, a small server, then copy the file to a development
workstation or laptop and analyse it there at a later time. It is for this
reason that the heap-dumping part, L<Devel::MAT::Dumper>, is now separated
into its own CPAN distribution. This means it can be installed on its own,
without all the extra dependencies the full set of analysis tools require.

=head1 CAPTURING THE HEAP

To generate the heap dump file that captures the contents of the heap, the
L<Devel::MAT::Dumper> module is used. Ultimately the C<dump> function within
it needs to be called, but usually one of the module load options can be used
on the F<perl> commandline to achieve this without requiring the running code
to be modified.

For example, the C<-dump_at_DIE> option means that a heap dump will be written
just before the process quits due to an uncaught exception:

  $ perl -MDevel::MAT::Dumper=-dump_at_DIE program.pl

At this point, the program will start up and run normally, but if it is about
to die, it will first write a F<.pmat> file capturing the contents of the
memory.

  ...
  Dumping to program.pl.pmat because of DIE
  Can't call method "method" on an undefined value at program.pl line 123.

There are a variety of other options for other situations, to suit other sorts
of bugs and issues under investigation. For more options, see the
documentation at L<Devel::MAT::Dumper/IMPORT OPTIONS>.

=head1 ANALYSING THE HEAP

Now that we have a F<.pmat> file, we can load it and start to inspect the
contents. A lot of the smaller, simpler tools are built as plugins for the
main F<pmat> command shell, so we can start by loading the heap file there.

  $ pmat program.pl.pmat
  Perl memory dumpfile from perl 5.24.1
  Heap contains 15624 objects
  pmat>

In this shell a collection of commands is available to help analyse and
inspect the contents of memory represented by this heap dump, which can be
used in an interactive way, trying to narrow down to find the cause of the
memory issue.

It is hard in general to describe exactly what sequence of analysis commands
will be best to find the problem, as the specifics of each individual case
will call for different kinds of analysis and require us to ask different
questions of the toolset.

Ultimately there is quite a variety of possible underlying causes of memory
growth in a Perl program; a few possible causes could be:

=over 2

=item *

A single large SV such as a hash or array containing millions of items, or
a single string possibly gigabytes in length.

=item *

A large number of SVs being created retained indefinitely, never being
reclaimed.

=item *

A large number of temporary SVs being created, but due to internal reference
cycles their memory is never reclaimed despite them now being unreachable.

=back

This list of course is quite incomplete - there are as many different
variations of erroenous memory usage as there are possible programs to write.
Additionally, a lot of more interesting programs often suffer multiple
overlapping issues at once. Nevertheless, this broad categorisation can help
to describe some overall approaches to finding memory usage issues.

A good first step to take in the F<pmat> shell to try to distinguish these
cases is to use the C<largest> command. This command requires no additional
arguments, and by default will print (in size order), the five largest
individual SVs in the entire heap.

  pmat> largest

For more information about the C<largest> command, see also
L<Devel::MAT::Tool::Sizes/largest>.

=head2 One Large SV

Sometimes you'll find a single SV that far outweighs all the others; for
example:

  pmat> largest
  SCALAR(PV) at 0x6a47708: 1.6 GiB
  SCALAR(PV) at 0x1a59488: 4.0 MiB
  HASH(0) at 0xfb4770=strtab: 1.5 MiB
  SCALAR(PV) at 0x71b6468: 707.3 KiB
  SCALAR(PV) at 0x71be2f0: 609.6 KiB
  others: 46.2 MiB

In this output, we see that the topmost SV reported, at address C<0x6a47708>
is much larger than everything else put together. In this case we have
essentially already found the cause of the memory usage growth, and we can
proceed by identifying what this particular SV actually is, by following the
process in L<Devel::MAT::UserGuide::IdentifyingAnSV>.

For a brief overview, we can just count the total number of objects of various
kinds in the heap:

  pmat> count
    Kind       Count (blessed)        Bytes (blessed)
    ARRAY        182         0     16.0 KiB          
    CODE         182         0     22.8 KiB          
    GLOB         325         0     48.2 KiB          
    ...

We can inspect the callstack at the time the heap dump was made:

  pmat> callers
  caller(0): CODE(PP) at 0x55555582a4e8=&main::__ANON__ => void
    at t/test.pl line 49
    $_[0]: SCALAR(PV) at 0x55c2bdce2778 = "arguments"
    $_[1]: SCALAR(PV) at 0x55c2bdce2868 = "go"
    $_[2]: SCALAR(PV) at 0x55c2bdce26e8 = "here"
  ...

=head1 COMMAND HELP

A list of the commands currently available in the shell can be found by the
C<help> command:

  pmat> help
  callers   - Display the caller stack
  count     - Count the various kinds of SV
  elems     - List the elements of an ARRAY SV
  ...

For more information about a particular command, give its name as an argument
to the C<help> command:

  pmat> help sizes
  sizes - Summarize object and byte counts across different SV types

  SYNOPSIS:
    sizes [OPTIONS...]

  OPTIONS:
    --owned     sum SVs by owned size
    --struct    sum SVs by structural size

Also note that each command is implemented by a (correctly-cased) package
under the C<Devel::MAT::Tool> namespace. For example, the C<count> tool is
implemented by, and therefore more documentation can be found in, the
L<Devel::MAT::Tool::Count> package.

=head2 Specifying SVs

Many commands operate on a particular given SV. This can be specified in
several ways:

=over 4

=item *

A numerical address directly:

   pmat> show 0x55a7e4e59f78
   IO()=IO::File at 0x55a7e4e59f78 with refcount 1
   ...

=item *

A named root SV (see the C<roots> command for a list of them all):

   pmat> show defstash
   STASH(61) at 0x55a7e4d69060=defstash with refcount 2

=item *

A named symbol from the symbol table. Note that subs require the C<&> sigil:

  pmat> show $warnings::VERSION
  SCALAR(PV) at 0x55a7e4d96550 with refcount 1
  ...

  pmat> show &warnings::import
  CODE(PP) at 0x55a7e4dc3458 with refcount 1
  ...

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Paul Evans <leonerd@leonerd.org.uk>

=cut
