=head1 NAME

Catalyst::Manual::Deployment::SharedHosting - Deploying Catalyst on Shared Hosting

=head1 Catalyst on shared hosting

So, you want to put your Catalyst application out there for the whole
world to see, but you don't want to break the bank. There is an answer -
if you can get shared hosting with FastCGI and a shell, you can install
your Catalyst app in a local directory on your shared host. First, run

    perl -MCPAN -e shell

and go through the standard CPAN configuration process. Then exit
without installing anything. Next, download the latest L<local::lib>
package and follow its 'bootstrap' instructions to get it installed
and the local configuration added to your C<< ~/.bashrc >>.

Now log out, then back in again (or run C<". .bashrc"> if you
prefer).

Now you can install the modules you need using CPAN as normal; they will
be installed into your local directory, and Perl will pick them up.
Finally, change into the root directory of your virtual host, and
symlink your application's script directory:

    cd path/to/mydomain.com
    ln -s ~/lib/MyApp/script script

And add the following lines to your .htaccess file (assuming the server
is setup to handle .pl as fcgi - you may need to rename the script to
myapp_fastcgi.fcgi and/or use a SetHandler directive):

  RewriteEngine On
  RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} !^/?script/myapp_fastcgi.pl
  RewriteRule ^(.*)$ script/myapp_fastcgi.pl/$1 [PT,L]

Now C<http://mydomain.com/> should now Just Work. Congratulations, now
you can tell your friends about your new website. 

=head1 AUTHORS

Catalyst Contributors, see Catalyst.pm

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This library is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

