=head1 NAME

Installation of DBIx::PgLink

=head1 PREREQUISITES

=over

=item *

PostgreSQL 8.2 or later

=item *

Perl 5.8.6 or later

=item *

Perl modules

     DBI
     DBD::Pg
     Moose
     MooseX::Method
     Tie::Cache::LRU

     DBD driver for remote database

Moose requires L<Class::MOP> module. 
Ensure that you have latest Class::MOP version installed, 
for notable performance boost in 0.49.

=item *

Superuser account on local PostgreSQL server

Must logon without password typing, i.e. use 'trust' authentication 
or store password in .pgpass/pgpass.conf file

=back

=head1 BUILDING

Run

  perl Makefile.PL
  make

(on Windows with Microsoft Visual Studio use 'nmake')

or

  perl Build.PL
  ./Build

=head1 TESTING

=over

=item *

Change t/test.conf for your environment. It's in YAML format.

First configuration entry named 'TEST' describe local PostgreSQL connection.
Test will log on to this server as specified user,
drop and create test database and install all database object.

B<WARNING: all previous content of database will be lost>

This database also will be used as 'remote' database for testing.

Other entries are commented by default.


=item *

Check PostgreSQL account

Ensure that PostgreSQL owner (operating system account, usually 'postgres')
can connect to his own server with specified in t/test.conf credentials.
If used .pgpass file, place it to 'postgres' home directory.


=item *

Change permission on some directories for PostgreSQL owner account

=over

=item read permissions for ./blib

  chmod -R o=r,+X blib

=item read and write permissions for ./examples

  chmod -R o=rw,+X examples

Only if you plan testing of XBase or SQLite data sources

=back

=item *

Run test

  make test

or

  ./Build test

Check for errors.

=back

=head1 INSTALLING

=over

=item *

Install Perl module

Run as root

  make install

or

  ./Build install

=item *

Install database objects

Run

  psql -h <host> -p <port> -U <superuser> -f _install.sql <database>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<DBIx::PgLink::Manual::Usage>,
L<http://pgfoundry.org/projects/dbi-link/>

=head1 AUTHOR

Alexey Sharafutdinov E<lt>alexey.s.v.br@gmail.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2007 by Alexey Sharafutdinov

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.8.8 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.


=cut
