=pod

=head1 NAME

Hyper::Developer::Manual::Example - Example Hyper Application

=head1 VERSION

This document describes Hyper::Developer::Manual::Example 0.03

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Hyper is a Workflow and Service/Usecase based Web Framework.
After creating a new environment for your Hyper stuff
developing applications with Hyper can be splitted into three
different parts.

=over

=item Modelling

Define Workflows and Controls.

=item Programming

Add your own code to your pages, to interfaces and add additonal things.

=item Beautifying

Modify generated templates (HTML) and add JavaScript for Show/Hide etc.

=back

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

You need to install the following Perl packages.

=over

=item *

Hyper

=item *

Hyper::Developer

=item *

Authen::Htpasswd

=back

=head1 SAMPLE

Let's look at our sample:

You want to create a workflow for changing passwords. Usernames
and passwords are stored in a .htpasswd file. The tasks should
be placed on three different pages.

=over

=item Page 1 - choose_username

With a username select, where the selection is required. There
should be an button to go to the next page.

=item Page 2 - change_password

Two fields - one for the new password and another one to confirm the
new password. Both entered passwords must match, before the password
will be changed. The fields are required fields. There should be
a button to go to next page.

=item Page 3 - confirmation

Confirm the password change and show page 1 again.

=back

=head1 CREATE NEW ENVIRONMENT

Depending on your operating system you maybe need to change the permissions
of the directory /srv using chmod.

Then run the following command:

    hyper.pl --base_path=/srv/www.example.com/ --namespace=Example --type=env

If this is your first Hyper Usecase you have to create a new environment.

=head1 MODELLING

=head2 Page 1

Create a file

    /srv/www.example.com/etc/Example/Control/Container/User/CSelectUsername.ini

with the following Content

    [Control]
    [Control user]
    class=Hyper.Control.Base.BSelect

    [Control submit]
    class=Hyper.Control.Base.BPushButton

    [Step]
    [Step START]
    [Step START Show]

    [Step Show]
    controls=<<EOT
    user
    submit
    EOT
    [Step Show END]
    condition=submit.pushed();

    [Step END]

To get rid of the syntax, have a look at L<Hyper::Config::Reader::Container>

To generate code and a template from this file call

    hyper.pl --template --file=/srv/www.example.com/etc/Example/Control/Container/User/CSelectUsername.ini

=head2 Page 2

Create a file

    /srv/www.example.com/etc/Example/Control/Container/User/CChangePassword.ini

with the following content

    [Control]
    [Control compare_passwords]
    class=Hyper.Control.Validator.Group
    [Control compare_passwords Validator Group Hyper.Validator.Group.Compare]

    [Control new_password]
    class=Hyper.Control.Base.BInput
    [Control new_password Validator Single Hyper.Validator.Single.Required]
    [Control new_password Validator Named compare_passwords]
    act_as=first

    [Control repeat_new_password]
    class=Hyper.Control.Base.BInput
    [Control repeat_new_password Validator Single Hyper.Validator.Single.Required]
    [Control repeat_new_password Validator Named compare_passwords]
    act_as=second

    [Control submit]
    class=Hyper.Control.Base.BPushButton

    [Step]
    [Step START]
    [Step START Show]

    [Step Show]
    controls=<<EOT
    new_password
    repeat_new_password
    compare_passwords
    submit
    EOT
    [Step Show END]
    condition=submit.pushed() && this.is_valid();

    [Step END]

To get rid of the syntax, have a look at L<Hyper::Config::Reader::Container>

To generate code and a template from this file call

    hyper.pl --template --file=/srv/www.example.com/etc/Example/Control/Container/User/CChangePassword.ini

=head2 Page 3

Create a file

    /srv/www.example.com/etc/Example/Control/Container/User/CConfirmation.ini

with the following content

    [Control]
    [Control submit]
    class=Hyper.Control.Base.BPushButton

    [Step]
    [Step START]
    [Step START Show]

    [Step Show]
    controls=<<EOT
    submit
    EOT
    [Step Show END]
    condition=submit.pushed();

    [Step END]

To get rid of the syntax, have a look at L<Hyper::Config::Reader::Container>

To generate code and a template from this file call

    hyper.pl --template --file=/srv/www.example.com/etc/Example/Control/Container/User/CConfirmation.ini

=head2 Connecting the Pages

Create a file

    /srv/www.example.com/etc/Example/Control/Flow/User/FChangePassword.ini

with the following content

    [Control]
    [Control select_username]
    class=Example.Control.Container.User.CSelectUsername

    [Control change_password]
    class=Example.Control.Container.User.CChangePassword

    [Control confirmation]
    class=Example.Control.Container.User.CConfirmation

    [Step]
    [Step START]
    [Step START select]

    [Step select]
    controls=<<EOT
    select_username
    EOT
    [Step select change]
    condition=select_username.state eq 'END'

    [Step change]
    controls=<<EOT
    change_password
    EOT
    [Step change confirm]
    condition=change_password.state eq 'END'

    [Step confirm]
    action=<<EOT
    select_username.state='START';
    EOT
    controls=<<EOT
    confirmation
    EOT
    [Step confirm select]
    condition=confirmation.state eq 'END'

    [Step END]

To get rid of the syntax, have a look at L<Hyper::Config::Reader::Flow>

To generate code and a template from this file call

    hyper.pl --file=/srv/www.example.com/etc/Example/Control/Flow/User/FChangePassword.ini

=head1 Verify your work

Before we do the programming part it's time to see what we've created since yet.

You can use the integrated Developer Webserver to do this

    perl /srv/www.example.com/bin/example/server.pl

Now connect to your page via your webbrowser using

    http://localhost:8080/cgi-bin/example/index.pl?service=User&usecase=ChangePassword

Now you see your first Hyper usecase. You can't go from Page 1 to Page 2
because the username select is a required field. So we have to fill
the username select with some data.

=head1 Programming

=head2 Create Data Source

Create the file

    /srv/www.example.com/.htpasswd

with the following content

    Andreas:X
    Martin:X
    Helmut:X

=head2 Fill the username select

Open the generated file

    /srv/www.example.com/lib/Example/Control/Flow/User/FChangePassword.pm

and add the following code before the __END__ mark

    use Authen::Htpasswd;

    sub _get_authen_object :PRIVATE {
        return Authen::Htpasswd->new('/srv/www.example.com/.htpasswd');
    }

    sub ACTION_select {
        my $self = shift;

        $self->get_object('select_username')->get_object('user')->set_elements([
            map {
                { value => $_->username(), data => $_->username() };
            } $self->_get_authen_object()->all_users()
        ]);

        return $self;
    }

    sub ACTION_confirm {
        my $self   = shift;

        $self->_get_authen_object()->update_user(
            $self->get_object('select_username')
                 ->get_object('user')
                 ->get_value(),
            $self->get_object('change_password')
                 ->get_object('new_password')
                 ->get_value(),
        );

        return $self;
    }

To get more information (e.g. why should you name this subroutines ACTION_* ?)
have a look at L<Hyper::Control::Flow>

=head1 Verify your work

Now restart your Developer Webserver and
connect again to your page via your webbrowser using

    http://localhost:8080/cgi-bin/index.pl?service=User&usecase=ChangePassword

Your usecase should be completely useable (but maybe it looks ugly).

=head1 Beautifying

Now you can edit the default templates *.htc located below

    /srv/www.example.com/var/Example/


=head1 INCOMPATIBILITIES

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

=head1 RCS INFORMATIONS

=over

=item Last changed by

 $Author: ac0v $

=item Id

 $Id: Example.pod 333 2008-02-18 22:59:27Z ac0v $

=item Revision

 $Revision: 333 $

=item Date

 $Date: 2008-02-18 23:59:27 +0100 (Mon, 18 Feb 2008) $

=item HeadURL

 $HeadURL: http://svn.hyper-framework.org/Hyper/Hyper-Developer/branches/0.07/lib/Hyper/Developer/Manual/Example.pod $

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Andreas Specht  C<< <ACID@cpan.org> >>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2007, Andreas Specht C<< <ACID@cpan.org> >>.
All rights reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
