# Below is a documentation.

=head1 NAME

RDF::Notation3 - RDF Notation3 parser

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 $rdf = RDF::Notation3::Triples->new();
 $rdf->parse_file($path);
 $triples = $rdf->get_triples;

 $rdf = RDF::Notation3::XML->new();
 $rdf->parse_file($path);
 $string = $rdf->get_string;

 $handler = SAXHandler->new();
 $rdf = RDF::Notation3::SAX->new(Handler => $handler);
 $rdf->parse_file($path);

 $rdf = RDF::Notation3::RDFCore->new();
 $storage = RDF::Core::Storage::Memory->new();
 $rdf->set_storage($storage);
 $model = $rdf->parse_file($path);
 $n3 = $rdf->get_n3($model);

 $rdf = RDF::Notation3::RDFStore->new();
 $rdf->set_options({ Name => 'test', Split => 20 });
 $model  = $rdf->parse_file($path);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is an RDF/N3 parser; it can parse N3 files or strings and provide
results in whatever format (as far as there are subclasses supporting your
desired format available). 

RDF::Notation3 is a base class providing the parsing logic only. This class is 
never used directly. Instead, derived classes such as RDF::Notation3::Triples
or Notation3::XML are used. The subclasses control how results of parsing 
are processed and can provide additional methods to access the results then. 
RDF::Notation3 doesn't tend to create sophisticated in-memory or persistent 
RDF structures of its own; it should more likely serve as a parser for other 
Perl RDF modules (such as RDF::Core) focused on how to store and access RDF 
models.

=head1 METHODS COMMON TO ALL SUBCLASSES

The following methods are common to all subclasses. The parse_file and 
parse_string methods may have somewhat different behavior for various 
subclasses, see also their description for particular classes for complete
information.

=over

=item parse_file

 $rdf->parse_file($path);

Parses an N3 file specified by $path. This method usually returns a number
of parsed triples; however it can have different side-effects for
different subclasses (e.g. storing triples in memory or converting to
another format). See description of particular subclasses for details.

=item parse_string

 $rdf->parse_file($string);

Similar to parse_file, just parses N3 data from string.

=item anonymous_ns_uri

 $ns_uri = $rdf->anonymous_ns_uri;
 $rdf->anonymous_ns_uri('http://gingerall.org/anonymous#');

Gets or sets anonymous namespace URI. The default value is '#', 
which results in anonymous nodes URIs like this: <#g_1>. If set as above,
it will be changed to <http://gingerall.org/anonymous#g_1>.

=item quantification

 $status = $rdf->quantification;
 $rdf->quantification(0);

Enables and disables existential quantification statements. Valid arguments 
are 0 (disable) and 1 (enable). When enabled (default), there are generated 
additional statements in form of

 current_context <http://www.w3.org/2000/10/swap/log.n3#forSome> anonnode

for anonymous nodes of type [...] and for contexts {...}. This is a common 
practice in Notation3 language, the way to turn this feature off is provided 
to be compatible with RDF/XML parsers.

=back

=head1 SUBCLASSES

=head2 RDF::Notation3::Triples

This class parses an RDF/N3 file and stores triples in memory. Qualified names 
with prefixes are expanded using a prefix-URI mapping for given context 
during the parse time.

methods:

=over

=item parse_file, parse_string

 $rdf->parse_file($path);
 $rdf->parse_string($string);

Triples are stored to the $rdf->{triples} array. Namespace bindings appear
in the $rdf->{ns} hash.

=item get_triples

 $triples = $rdf->get_triples($subject, $property, $object, $context);

Returns a reference to array of triples created by the parse method. 
Arguments are optional. The result set can be filtered for particular subject,
property, object or context. The array has the same structure as the 
$rdf->{triples} property.

For example:

 $triples = $rdf->get_triples;

returns all triples, while

 $triples = $rdf->get_triples($subject);

returns only triples containing subject $subject and

 $triples = $rdf->get_triples(undef, $property, $object);

returns only triples containing property $property and object $object.

 $triples = $rdf->get_triples(undef, undef, undef, '<>');

returns all triples from the document (top-level) context.

=item get_triples_as_string

 $triples = $rdf->get_triples_as_string($subject, $property, $object, $context);

Returns triples in a line-based, plain text format called N-Triples
(http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/RDFCore/ntriples/). Each line contains one triple
in the form of "subject - predicate - object". The string can be filtered
using subject, predicate, object, and context exactly in the same way as
in the of case get_triples method.

=item get_n3

 $n3 = $rdf->get_n3;

This method serializes parsed triples back to an N3 string. Prefixes are not used
at all.

=item add_prefix

 $rc = $rdf->add_prefix('mop','my_own_prefix#');

This method allows to add prefix-namespace bindings for the top-level context.
It returns the new number of bound prefixes.

=item add_triple

 $rc = $rdf->add_triple('<#Bob>','foaf:name','"Bob"');

This method allows to add triples one by one. It returns the new number of
stored triples. A valid format of all arguments is checked as well as bindings
of prefixes. QNames are expanded to URIs. Context is always set to top-level 
(document).

=back

properties:

=over

=item triples

 $rdf->{triples}

A reference to array of triples created by the parse method. Each triple is
represented as an array with 4 elements: subject, predicate, object, and 
context. All nodes are stored as <URI> or "literal". To filter triples use
get_triples method.

=item ns

 $rdf->{ns}

A reference to hash created by the parse method. The hash keys are context
URIs (<> for document context and <#c_n> for anonymous contexts). The hash
values are again hashes keyed with prefixes with ns URIs as values.

=back

=head2 RDF::Notation3::PrefTriples

This class parses an RDF/N3 file and stores triples in memory. Qualified 
names with prefixes are NOT expanded. The expansion can be done later using 
the {ns} hash. However, if a prefix-URI binding changes within a context, 
the result of parsing may be incorrect. Use this class as a faster way to get
QNames with prefixes if you are SURE the binding doesn't change! Otherwise
use RDF::Notation3::Triples for correct results.

methods:

=over

=item parse_file, parse_string

 $rdf->parse_file($path);
 $rdf->parse_string($string);

Triples are stored to the $rdf->{triples} array. Namespace bindings appear
in the $rdf->{ns} hash.

=item get_triples

See RDF::Notation3::Triples.

=item get_triples_as_string

See RDF::Notation3::Triples.

=item get_n3

 $n3 = $rdf->get_n3;

This method serializes parsed triples back to an N3 string. Prefixes are 
preserved.

=item add_prefix

See RDF::Notation3::Triples.

=item add_triple

See RDF::Notation3::Triples. The only difference is that QNames are not
expanded.

=back

properties:

=over

=item triples

 $rdf->{triples}

A reference to array of triples created by the parse method. Each triple is
represented as an array with 4 elements: subject, predicate, object, and 
context. All nodes are stored as <URI>, prefix:local or "literal". To filter 
triples use get_triples method.

=item ns

See RDF::Notation3::Triples.

=back

=head2 RDF::Notation3::XML

This class parses an RDF/N3 file and converts it to RDF/XML.

methods:

=over

=item parse_file, parse_string

 $rdf->parse_file($path);
 $rdf->parse_string($string);

Resulting XML is stored in the $rdf->{xml} array (line by line).

=item get_string;

 $xml = $rdf->get_string;

Returns resulting XML as string.

=item get_array

 $xml = $rdf->get_array;

Returns resulting XML as array.

=item get_arrayref

 $xml = $rdf->get_arrayref;

Returns resulting XML as reference to array.

=back

=head2 RDF::Notation3::SAX

This class converts RDF/N3 files to RDF/XML streams of SAX events. It is 
an XML::SAX compliant SAX driver, therefore it requires XML::SAX to be 
installed. RDF::Notation3::SAX supports basic Handler (ContentHandler) and
ErrorHandler. An example of a script (sax.pl) using the SAX driver and simple 
handlers (MyHandler.pm, MyErrorHandler.pm) can be found in the examples 
directory.

See Perl SAX 2.0 Binding specification 
(http://cvs.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/perl-xml/libxml-perl/doc/) and 
XML::SAX documentation to learn more about how to use SAX drivers and handlers.

methods:

=over

=item parse_file, parse_string

 $rdf->parse_file($path);
 $rdf->parse_string($string);

These methods don't return a number of parsed triples but result of calling 
the end_document() callback as required by SAX. The number of triples can
be accessed as $rdf->{count}.

=back

=head2 RDF::Notation3::RDFCore

This class parses an RDF/N3 file and returns an RDF::Core::Model object.
Using RDF::Core you can store parsed models either in memory or persistently,
ask queries etc.

methods:

=over

=item parse_file, parse_string

 $model = $rdf->parse_file($path);
 $model = $rdf->parse_string($string);

Both methods return a model object.

=item set_storage

 $rdf->set_storage($storage);

Allows to select a storage for the model. The argument of this method must
be one of the following objects:

=over

=item RDF::Core::Storage::Memory

An in-memory implementation of RDF::Core::Storage

=item RDF::Core::Storage::Postgres

PostgreSQL implementation of RDF::Core::Storage

=item RDF::Core::Storage::DB_File

Berkeley DB 1.x implementation of RDF::Core::Storage

An error is reported by parse_string and parse_file methods if there is no
valid storage specified.

=back

=item get_n3

 $n3 = $rdf->get_n3($model);

This method serializes an RDF::Core model to N3 string. Prefixes are used
for predicates only so far.

=back

=head2 RDF::Notation3::RDFStore

This class parses an RDF/N3 file and returns an RDFStore model object.
The model is stored either in memory or persistently, according to passed
options. See RDFStore docs for details.

methods:

=over

=item parse_file, parse_string

 $model = $rdf->parse_file($path);
 $model = $rdf->parse_string($string);

Both methods return a model object.

=item set_options

 $rdf->set_options($options);

Options are simply passed to the RDFStore::Model constructor. Thus all options
supported by RDFStore can be used.

=back

=head1 VERSION

Current version is 0.90.

=head1 LICENSING

Copyright (c) 2001 Ginger Alliance. All rights reserved. This program is 
free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms
as Perl itself. 

=head1 AUTHOR

Petr Cimprich (Ginger Alliance), petr@gingerall.cz

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

Douglas P. Mennella, mennella@mindspring.com

=head1 SEE ALSO

perl(1), RDF::Core, RDFStore.

=cut
