=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Mojolicious::Plugin::I18N - Internationalization Plugin for Mojolicious

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # Mojolicious
  $self->plugin('I18N');
  % languages 'de';
  %=l 'hello'

  # Mojolicious::Lite (detect language from URL, i.e. /en/ or /de/)
  plugin I18N => {namespace => 'MyApp::I18N', support_url_langs => [qw(en de)]};
  %=l 'hello'
  
  # Lexicon
  package MyApp::I18N::de;
  use Mojo::Base 'MyApp::I18N';

  our %Lexicon = (hello => 'hallo');

  1;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::I18N> is internationalization plugin for Mojolicious
It works with Mojolicious 4.0+.

Old namespace is L<Mojolicious::Plugin::I18N2>.

=head1 OPTIONS

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::I18N> supports the following options.

=head2 C<support_url_langs>
  
  plugin I18N => {support_url_langs => [qw(en de)]};

Detect language from URL.

=head2 C<support_hosts>

  plugin I18N => {support_hosts => { 'mojolicious.ru' => 'ru', 'mojolicio.us' => 'en' }};

Detect Host header and use language for that host. 

=head2 C<no_header_detect>

  plugin I18N => {no_header_detect => 1};

Off header detect.

=head2 C<default>

  plugin I18N => {default => 'en'};

Default language for i18n, defaults to C<en>.

=head2 C<namespace>

  plugin I18N => {namespace => 'MyApp::I18N'};

Lexicon namespace, defaults to the application class followed by C<::I18N>.

=head1 HELPERS

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::I18N> implements helpers same as L<Mojolicious::Plugin::I18N>.

=head2 C<l>

  %=l 'hello'
  $self->l('hello');

Translate sentence.

=head2 C<languages>

  % languages 'de';
  $self->languages('de');

Change languages.

=head1 METHODS

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::I18N> inherits all methods from L<Mojolicious::Plugin::I18N>
and reimplements the following new ones.

=head2 C<register>

  $plugin->register;

Register plugin hooks and helpers in L<Mojolicious> application.

=head1 DEBUG MODE

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::I18N> has debug mode.

  # debug mode on
  BEGIN { $ENV{MOJO_I18N_DEBUG} = 1 };

  # or
  MOJO_I18N_DEBUG=1 perl script.pl

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mojolicious>, L<Mojolicious::Guides>, L<http://mojolicio.us>.

=head1 AUTHORS

2011-2014 Anatoly Sharifulin <sharifulin@gmail.com>

2010-2012 Sebastian Riedel <kraihx@googlemail.com>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-mojolicious-plugin-i18n at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.htMail?Queue=Mojolicious-Plugin-I18N>.  We will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as we make changes.

=over 5

=item * Github

L<http://github.com/sharifulin/mojolicious-plugin-i18n/tree/master>

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.htMail?Dist=Mojolicious-Plugin-I18N>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Mojolicious-Plugin-I18N>

=item * CPANTS: CPAN Testing Service

L<http://cpants.perl.org/dist/overview/Mojolicious-Plugin-I18N>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Mojolicious-Plugin-I18N>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Mojolicious-Plugin-I18N>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2011-2014 by Anatoly Sharifulin.
Copyright (C) 2008-2012, Sebastian Riedel.

This program is free software, you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Artistic License version 2.0.

=cut
