=for html
<div id="content">
<h1>
Revision history for HTTP::DAV
</h1>
</div>
<div id="content">

=begin text

Revision history for HTTP::DAV

=end text

=head2 v0.49 (released 2018/11/28):

=over 4

=item * B<bug fixes>

Fixed perl shebang line in C<dave> script, for ExtUtils::MakeMaker to correctly
replace it. Closes C<RT#127819>.

Fixed C<propfind> response handling to also consider successful an HTTP 207
status code. Closes C<RT#127591>.

Fixed C<clone()> method to properly respect the class name. Closes C<RT#123528>.
Thanks to Ricardo Signes for the patch.

=item * B<documentation fixes>

Fixed various pod issues raised by Debian contributor C<fsfs@debian.org>.
Closes C<RT#119878>.

=back

=head2 v0.48 (released 2015/03/26):

=over 4

=item * B<bug fixes>

C<RT#103126>, fixed faulty code to add trailing slash to URLs.

=back

=head2 v0.47 (released 2012/03/24):

=over 4

=item * B<bug fixes>

Improve C<propfind()> resilience when server response contains
broken, truncated or no XML at all. RT#75011.

=back

=head2 v0.46 (released 2012/01/11):

=over 4

=item * B<improvements>

HTTP::DAV should now be working with more WebDAV servers.

We are more flexible in what content types we consider to be XML.
Thanks Ron1 and Adam for the feedback and patches.

=back

=head2 v0.45 (released 2011/09/18):

=over 4

=item * B<bug fixes>

  - Fixed RT #69439 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=69439),
    insecure /tmp files handling in dave client.

=item * B<improvements>

  - Added -tmpdir option to dave client.
  - Reorganized distribution layout to match usual CPAN practice
  - Removed remains of svn-era ($Id and such...)

=back

=head2 v0.44 (released 2011/06/19):

=over 4

=item * B<bug fixes>

  - Fixed RT #68936 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=68936),
    Fixed errors() method that would bomb out when the "_errors" attribute
    wasn't initialized. Thanks to Michael Lackoff for reporting.

=back

=head2 v0.43 (released 2011/04/12):

=over 4

=item * B<bug fixes>

  - Fixed RT #38677 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=38677),
    Intercept correctly 405 (Method now allowed) errors and report them
    to the clients.

=back

=head2 v0.42 (released 2010/11/07):

=over 4

=item * B<bug fixes>

  - Fixed RT #60457 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=60457),
    Added and documented possibility to pass your own custom HTTP headers.
  - Fixed errors in the code examples in the synopsis.

=back

=head2 v0.41 (released 2010/07/24):

=over 4

=item * B<bug fixes>

  - Fixed RT #59674 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=59674),
	When SSL support is needed but not installed, a more specific
    error messages is now displayed, instead of "not DAV enabled or not accessible".

=back

=head2 v0.40 (released 2010/01/27):

=over 4

=item * B<bug fixes>

  - Fixed RT #47500 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=47500),
	HTTP::DAV::Comms->credentials() method erroneously autovivified
	basic authentication internal values, causing wrong or undefined
	credentials to be sent out, or credentials to be "forgot" by HTTP::DAV.

=back

=head2 v0.39 (released 2009/12/12):

=over 4

=item * B<bug fixes>

  - Fixed RT #52665 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=52665),
	Using dave or propfind() on URLs containing escaped chars (%xx) could fail,
	due to upper/lower case differences. Thanks to cebjyre for the patch
	and the test case.

=back

=head2 v0.38 (released 2009/06/09):

=over 4

=item * B<bug fixes>

  - Fixed RT #14506 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=14506),
    about the missing get_lastresponse() method. It was a documentation bug.

  - Fixed RT #29788 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=29788),
    avoid file corruptions on Win32 when calling HTTP::DAV::get() method.

  - Fixed RT #31014 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=31014),
    probably already in v0.34, since it seems related to propfind() "depth" bug.

=back

=head2 v0.37 (released 2009/03/24):

=over 4

=item * B<bug fixes>

  - Fixed RT #44409 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=44409),
    Small bug in HTTP::DAV::put(). Passing a reference as local content resulted
	in the "SCALAR(0x12345678)" being logged instead of the real scalar.

=back

=head2 v0.36 (released 2009/02/25):

=over 4

=item * B<bug fixes>

  - Fixed RT #19616 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=19616),
    LWP::UserAgent::redirect_ok() is not changed anymore. We're subclassing
    it from HTTP::DAV::UserAgent and overriding redirect_ok() there.

  - Fixed RT #42877 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=42877),
    HTTP::DAV::UserAgent::credentials() has been modified to behave like
    LWP::UserAgent::credentials(), otherwise basic authentication breakages
    can occur.

  - Fixed a problem with C<-depth> argument to C<HTTP::DAV::propfind()> that
    could lead to massive performance degradation, especially when running
	C<propfind()> against large folders.
	C<-depth> was set to 1 even when passed as zero.

=back

=head2 v0.35 (released 2008/11/03):

=over 4

=item * B<bug fixes>

  - Fixed RT #40318 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=40318),
    about getting single or multiple files directly to \*STDOUT.

=back

=head2 v0.34 (released 2008/09/11):

=over 4

=item * B<bug fixes>

  - Fixed RT #39150 (http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=39150),
    about downloading multiple files in the same directory.

=back

=head2 v0.33 (released 2008/08/24):

=over 4

=item * B<documentation>

  - Clearly state that opera software asa is now co-maintainer of http::dav

  - Fixed various inconsistencies in the v0.32 documentation

=back

=head2 v0.32 (released 2008/08/24):

=over 4

=item * B<incompatibilities>

 - Now HTTP::DAV requires Perl 5.6.0+ and Scalar::Util (core in 5.8.x).

=item * B<bug fixes>

 - Now HTTP::DAV objects are correctly released from memory when
   they go out of scope. Now it should be possible to use multiple instances
   of HTTP::DAV even in long-running processes.

   Was caused by circular references between HTTP::DAV and HTTP::DAV::Resource.

=back

=head2 v0.31 (released 2002/04/13):

=over 4

=item * B<Apache 2 mod_dav support>

 - Now works with mod_dav under Apache 2.

=item * B<bug fixes>

 - Fixed bug to correctly handle the put/get of filenames with spaces in them.

 - Fixed bug to allow the PUT of empty files.

 - put() now uses binmode so that it works under Windows.

 - HTTP redirect code added in the previous release was incorrectly returning a HTTP::Response instead of a HTTP::DAV::Response

 - Fixed bug to allow https for copy and move (http:// was hardcoded).

 - Fixed strange copy/move bug for Apache2.0's mod_dav.


=back

=head2 v0.29 (released 2001/10/31):

=over 4

=item *

B<https>

https support as provided from the underlying LWP library has been tested against mod_dav and mod_ssl. Seems to work well. See INSTALLATION for more detail.

=item *

B<Digest authentication>

Requires MD5 to be installed. See INSTALLATION notes.

=item *

B<various bug fixes>

=item *

B<more powerful callback support for get()>

Useful for giving progress indicators.

=item *

B<get() to filehandles and scalar references>

the get() routine now allows you to pass by reference a filehandle or scalar in which to save the contents of the GET request.

=item *

B<added namespace abbreviations in proppatch>

Thanks to Jeremy for this patch.

=item *

B<improved redirect handling in Comms.pm>

Thanks to Jeremy for this patch.

=back

=head2 v0.23 (released 2001/09/07):

=over 4

=item *

B<file globbing for get and put>

HTTP::DAV::get() and HTTP::DAV::put() now supports file globs. This functionality also propagates to dave. This allows you to do the following:

 dav> put /tmp/index*.html
 dav> get index[12].htm? /tmp

 ?,* and sets ([]) are supported. See the docs for details.

HTTP::DAV now requires the Perl module File::Glob which comes bundled with perl5.6 and later.

=item *

bug fix in -overwrite flag in HTTP::DAV::copy/move.

=back

=head2 v0.22 (released 2001/09/03)

Complete overhaul of API, recursive get and put, addition of dave.

=over 4

=item *

B<dave -- the new command line client>

I wrote dave (the DAV Explorer) because I needed an end-user application that allowed me to "feel" how well the HTTP::DAV API was performing. dave is quite similar to Joe Orton's C-based DAV client called cadaver (yes, imitation is the best form of flattery).

=item *

B<A new and simpler API>

This new API is accessed directly through the HTTP::DAV module and is based on the core API written in previous releases. 

=item * 

B<new methods>

The new API now supports, proppatch, recursive get and put.

=item *

B<A substantial core API overhaul>

Moving from v0.05 to v0.22 in one release might indicate the amount of work gone into this release.

=item *

B<A new interoperability test suite>

is now included in PerlDAV. The test suite is built on top of the standard Perl Test::Harness modules. Still in development, the test suite is highlighting interoperability problems with DAV-servers a lot quicker than before. See L<the test suite & interoperability> section.

=back

=head2 v0.05 (released 2001/07/24)

General bug fixes and addition of proppatch

 - added PROPPATCH method to HTTP::DAV::Resource, thanks to Sylvain Plancon.
 - fixed uninitialized warnings in test scripts.
 - fixed new lock bug in DAV::Lock, thanks to Ben Evans
 - fixed dumb mistake where PUT was calling get instead of put, 
   thanks to Sylvain and Ben again.
 - fixed call to Utils::bad, thanks to Sylvain

=head2 v0.04 (released 2000/04/25) 

Initial Release

 - supports PUT,GET,MLCOL,DELETE,OPTIONS,PROPFIND,LOCK,UNLOCK,steal_lock,lock_discovery

=for text
** This file was automatically generated from **
** doc/Changes.pod. To edit it, see there.    **

=for html
</div>
