=head1 NAME

ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins::Modem is a Perl module that provides Modem functions used by ASNMTAP-based plugins.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 4

=item modem

 use ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins::Modem v3.002.003;
 use ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins::Modem qw(&get_modem_request);

 my $returnCode = get_modem_request (
   asnmtapInherited => \$objectPlugins,
   phonenumber      => $phonenumber,
   port             => $port,
   baudrate         => $baud,
   logtype          => 'file',
   loglevel         => $loglevel
 );

=item RAS

 use ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins::Modem v3.002.003;
 use ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins::Modem qw(&get_modem_request);

 my $returnCode = get_modem_request (
   asnmtapInherited => \$objectPlugins,
   phonenumber      => $phonenumber,
   phonebook        => 'ASNMTAP',
   port             => $port,
   baudrate         => $baud,
   defaultGateway   => '192.168.123.254',
   defaultInterface => 'eth0',
   logtype          => 'file',
   loglevel         => $loglevel
 );

=back

=head1 Description

For testing modem and/or dial up (PPP/RAS) connections.

=head2 Device::Modem based functions.

Device::Modem is a Perl extension to talk to modem devices connected via serial port.

Device::Modem class implements basic AT (Hayes) compliant device abstraction.

=over 4

=item get_modem_request()

...

=over 4

=item asnmtapInherited

A required reference to an ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins or ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins::Nagios subclass

Through this way of working we inherited the command line option I<--debug>.

=item custom

optional, is an reference to your own custom defined function

=over 4

=item $asnmtapInherited

A required reference to an ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins or ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins::Nagios subclass

Through this way of working we inherited the command line option I<--debug>.

=item $parms

a reference to the get_modem_request () parameters

=item $modem

the MODEM object provides a reference to the currently used Device::Modem object

=item $ok

the latesd $ok status for dial() from Device::Modem

returns only success of connection. If modem answer contains C<CONNECT> string, it returns successful state, else false value is returned.

=item $answer

the latesd $answer (OK, RING, NO CARRIER, ERROR, NO DIALTONE, BUSY or undef) status from Device::Modem

 OK         : Command executed without errors
 RING       : Detected phone ring
 NO CARRIER : Link not established or disconnected
 ERROR      : Invalid command or command line too long
 NO DIALTONE: No dial tone, dialing not possible or wrong mode
 BUSY       : Remote terminal busy

returns the exact modem answer in the C<$answer> scalar. C<$answer> typically can contain strings like C<CONNECT 19200> or C<NO CARRIER>, C<BUSY>, ... all standard modem answers to a dial command.

=over 4

=item SKIP HANGUP

in a custom function you can set $$answer to 'SKIP HANGUP' for skipping the function $modem->hangup() on exit, needed for some PABX.

 sub actionOnModemResponse {
   my ($asnmtapInherited, $parms, $modem, $ok, $answer, $not_connected_guess, $arguments) = @_;

   my $debug = $asnmtapInherited->getOptionsValue ('debug');

   print 'ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins::Modem::get_modem_request::actionOnModemResponse: ', $asnmtapInherited->programDescription (), "\n" if ( $debug );

   unless ( $$ok ) {
     my $ATDT = 'ATDT'. $$parms{phonenumber};
     my $busy = ( $$answer eq $ATDT ? 1 : ( $$answer =~ /^$ATDT\s*(?:BUSY)?\s*$/ ? 2 : 0 ) );

     if ( $busy ) {
       $$answer = 'SKIP HANGUP' if ( $busy == 2 );
       print "OK: BUSY\n" if ($debug);
       $$ok = 1;
     } else {
       print "NOK: BUSY\n" if ($debug);
       $$not_connected_guess++;
       $asnmtapInherited->pluginValues ( { stateValue => $ERRORS{UNKNOWN}, alert => "Cannot dial [". $$parms{phonenumber} ."], answer: BUSY" }, $TYPE{APPEND} );
     }
   }

   return ( ( $$ok and ! $$not_connected_guess ) ? $ERRORS{OK} : $ERRORS{UNKNOWN} ); 
 }

=back

=item $not_connected_guess

default 0, everytime there is a problem we do $not_connected_guess++

=back

 sub actionOnModemResponse {
   my ($asnmtapInherited, $parms, $modem, $ok, $answer, $not_connected_guess) = @_;
   return ($returnCode);
 }

and now with customArguments:

 sub actionOnModemResponse {
   my ($asnmtapInherited, $parms, $modem, $ok, $answer, $not_connected_guess, $arguments) = @_;
   return ($returnCode);
 }

=item customArguments

optional, when you need to pass parameters to your own custom defined function, this can be done with customArguments.

 customArguments: SCALAR, ARRAY, HASH,
                  REF SCALAR, REF ARRAY, REF HASH

=back

=item windows

optional, scalar value 1 means force to be threated as Windows, 0 if under Linux or some kind of unix machine and undef means that we detect it automatically for you.

=item phonenumber

required, scalar [.0-9]

=item port

port where the modem connects to

if under Linux or some kind of unix machine: /dev/ttyS0, /dev/ttyS1, /dev/ttyS2 or /dev/ttyS3 or windows: com1, com2, com3 or com4

required, scalar, default /dev/ttyS0

=item baudrate

controls the speed of serial communications. However, here you can supply a custom value. Common speed values: 300, 1200, 2400, 4800, 9600, 19200, 38400, 57600, 115200.

optional, scalar, default 19200

=item databits

this tells how many bits your data word is composed of.

optional, scalar, between 5 and 8, default 8

=item initString

custom initialization string can be supplied instead of the built-in one

optional, scalar, default H0 Z S7=45 S0=0 Q0 V1 E0 &C0 X4

=item parity

controls how parity bit is generated and checked.

optional, scalar, can be even, odd or none, default none

=item stopbits

tells how many bits are used to identify the end of a data word.

optional, scalar, default 1

=item timeout

expressed in seconds. After that time, answer returns result also if nothing has been received

optional, scalar, default 30

=item phonebook

when specified, the it means the phonebook name for the Windows RAS connection or if under Linux or some kind of unix machine it means the name for the pppd call connection

optional, scalar, default undef

=item username

the username for the Linux or some kind of unix machine PPP- or Windows RAS connection

optional, scalar, default undef

=item password

the password for the Windows RAS connection

optional, scalar, default undef

=item defaultGateway

if under Linux or some kind of unix machine it means the default gateway

optional, scalar, default undef

=item defaultInterface

if under Linux or some kind of unix machine it means the default network interface

optional, scalar, default undef

=item defaultDelete

if under Linux or some kind of unix machine it means to delete the default gateway

optional, scalar, default 1

=item pppInterface

the name from the ppp interface

optional, scalar, can be ppp0, ppp1, ppp2 or ppp3, default ppp0

=item pppTimeout

timeout for when it is not possible to setup an ppp connection

optional, scalar, default 60

=item pppPath

path where the ppp config is located

optional, scalar, default /etc/ppp

=item logtype

optional, scalar, can be file or syslog, default syslog

when specified file the log can be found at $LOGPATH, where the filename is the name from the plugin with the extension .log

=item loglevel

default logging level.

optional, scalar, One of (order of decrescent verbosity): debug, info, notice, warning, err, crit, alert or emerg, default emerg

=back

=head1 ppp

More information can found at: http://www.samba.org/ppp/

=over 4

=item install ppp

=over 4

=item cygwin

...

=item linux

More information can found at: http://axion.physics.ubc.ca/ppp-linux.html

 yum install ppp

=item solaris

...

=back

=item Message Logging

 Edit /etc/syslog.conf and add the lines
 local2.*                                /var/log/ppp
 daemon.*                                /var/log/ppp

 /etc/init.d/syslog restart

 you can debug pppd now with:
 tail -f /var/log/ppp

=item No Default Route

 /sbin/route -n
 Kernel IP routing table
 Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
 192.168.123.0   0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
 0.0.0.0         192.168.123.254 0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0

 If there is such a default route (line starting with 0.0.0.0), and you want the ppp interface to be your default route, (the usual situation), run /sbin/route del default

=item Immediate PPP

 more /etc/ppp/peers/ASNMTAP
 hide-password
 noauth
 noipdefault
 remotename ASNMTAP
 ipparam ASNMTAP
 usepeerdns

 more /etc/ppp/pap-secrets
 userASNMTAP ASNMTAP pwdASNMTAP

 /usr/sbin/pppd /dev/ttyS1 115200 debug user userASNMTAP call ASNMTAP connect "/usr/sbin/chat -v ABORT BUSY ABORT 'NO CARRIER' ABORT VOICE ABORT 'NO DIALTONE' ABORT 'NO DIAL TONE' ABORT 'NO ANSWER' ABORT DELAYED '' ATZ OK AT OK ATDT070223326 CONNECT '\d\c'" defaultroute

=item Are you connected

 You are now, I hope, connected via ppp. The /var/log/ppp file should have a line like
   Connect: ppp0 <--> /dev/ttyS1
 1 Now, run

=item Known problems

 modprobe: modprobe: Can't locate module ppp-compress

=item Connected

 At this point you should be connected. You should see lines like
 - Feb 19 14:54:50 wormhole pppd[905]: local IP address 80.158.214.249
 - Feb 19 14:54:50 wormhole pppd[905]: remote IP address 80.158.214.243
 in /var/log/ppp. (The above two lines are from my own system. The addresses, names, dates and times will vary for yours, but the form should be the same.)

=item Testing Connection

 First try to ping the address of the remote host. In /var/log/ppp there will be two lines that look like
 - Feb 19 12:52:21 ppptest pppd[27378]: local IP address 80.158.214.249
 - Feb 19 12:52:21 ppptest pppd[27378]: remote IP address 80.158.214.243
 (Note that these are for a particular connection on my system. The numbers will differ on yours) These two lines give your and the remote computer's IP numbers for the duration of the connection. (They may well change the next time you connect.)

 Again run
   /sbin/route -n
 and look for an entry in which the first entry is that remote IP address, and the last entry is ppp0. It must be there for the connection to work.

 Then do
   ping <remoteIPnumber>
 eg in the above case this would be
   ping 80.158.214.249
 You should get back a sequence of lines about one every second. This shows that your connection to that remote host is OK, and that you have a connection to it. Type ^C (control-C) to stop ping. (Sometimes the remoteIPnumber does not respond to pings because of the way the ISP has set it up. Do not worry yet unless you get a Network or Host unreachable message.)

 Now, look at those lines that you added to /etc/resolv.conf back at the beginning of this script. Do
   ping <nameserverIP>
 where the entry in /etc/resolv.conf was
   nameserver <nameserverIP>
 Again you should get a series of responses. If you do not, they may not support ping on those machines. However, if you get a response saying that the host or network is unreachable, there is definitely something wrong, either with your setup or with the nameserver address they gave you.

 Now try
   ping 180.158.214.243
 (Using that actual number) which should work (unless of course there is something wrong with my machine. In which case try other IP numbers.) If none of these work, then there is some problem with your connection (eg default route problems).

 Now try pinging some name, eg.,
   ping www.citap.com
 (which is the location where this page is kept). The key thing is that ping reports back on its first line with the IP address of axion. If it did so, it means your nameserver is working. If the previous one worked, but this one does not, then you either forgot to follow the initial instructions on this page about setting up the file /etc/resolv.conf, or your ISP has nameserver problems. Try a few more names of machines that you know. If all of these tests have passed, try running Netscape and connecting to some page. Everything, I hope, now works.

 If not, collect all of the details you can (eg the output in /var/log/ppp-- making sure that you remove your passwords from that file) and ask for help in comp.os.linux.networking, alt.os.linux.dial-up, or alt.comp.linux.isp. As politeness, look in the archives on www.dejanews.com since your problem may already have been answered ( many times). When you ask for help or search, make your subject and description as specific as possible. 'Nothing works' as a symptom is very very hard for anyone to suggest fixes for.

=item Stopping PPP

 To stop the connection, use the command killall pppd

=back

=head1 EXPORT

=head2 TAGS

=over 4

=item *

ALL

 &get_modem_request

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Alex Peeters [alex.peeters@citap.be]

=head1 SEE ALSO

ASNMTAP::Asnmtap, ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins

 check_template-modem.pl
 check_template-ras.pl

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

=over 4

=item All

 IO::Handle
 Device::Modem

=item Linux or some kind of unix machine

 Device::SerialPort
 Net::Ifconfig::Wrapper

=item Windows

 Win32::SerialPort
 Win32::API
 Win32::RASE

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT NOTICE

(c) Copyright 2000-2011 by Alex Peeters [alex.peeters@citap.be],
                        All Rights Reserved.

ASNMTAP is based on 'Process System daemons v1.60.17-01', Alex Peeters [alex.peeters@citap.be]

 Purpose: CronTab (CT, sysdCT),
          Disk Filesystem monitoring (DF, sysdDF),
          Intrusion Detection for FW-1 (ID, sysdID)
          Process System daemons (PS, sysdPS),
          Reachability of Remote Hosts on a network (RH, sysdRH),
          Rotate Logfiles (system activity files) (RL),
          Remote Socket monitoring (RS, sysdRS),
          System Activity monitoring (SA, sysdSA).

'Process System daemons' is based on 'sysdaemon 1.60' written by Trans-Euro I.T Ltd

=head1 LICENSE

This ASNMTAP CPAN library and Plugin templates are free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The other parts of ASNMTAP may be used and modified free of charge by anyone so long as this copyright notice and the comments above remain intact. By using this code you agree to indemnify Alex Peeters from any liability that might arise from it's use.

Selling the code for this program without prior written consent is expressly forbidden. In other words, please ask first before you try and make money off of my program.

Obtain permission before redistributing this software over the Internet or in any other medium. In all cases copyright and header must remain intact.

=cut
