=head1 NAME

ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins::SOAP is a Perl module that provides SOAP functions used by ASNMTAP-based plugins.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins v3.002.003;
 use ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins qw(:PLUGINS);

 my $objectPlugins = ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins->new (
   _programName        => 'check_template-SOAP.pl',
   _programDescription => "SOAP::LITE plugin template for testing the '$APPLICATION' with Performance Data",
   _programVersion     => '3.002.003',
   _programGetOptions  => ['proxy:s', 'trendline|T:i'],
   _timeout            => 30,
   _debug              => 0);

 use ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins::SOAP qw(&get_soap_request);

 use SOAP::Lite;
 my $proxy      = 'http://services.soaplite.com/hibye.cgi';
 my $namespace  = 'http://www.soaplite.com/Demo';
 my $methodName = 'hi';
 my $method     = SOAP::Data->name($methodName)->attr( {xmlns => $namespace} );

 my %soapService_Register_NS = (
   'http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/mime/' => 'mime',
   'http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema'      => 's'
 );

 my $xmlContent;
 my $params;

 my ($returnCode, $xml) = get_soap_request ( 
   asnmtapInherited  => \$objectPlugins,
   proxy             => $proxy,
   namespace         => $namespace,
   method            => $method,
   registerNamespace => \%soapService_Register_NS,
   xmlContent        => $xmlContent,
   params            => $params,
   readable          => 1,
   cookies           => 1,
   perfdataLabel     => 'SOAP'
 );

 ($returnCode, $xml) = get_soap_request ( 
   asnmtapInherited  => \$objectPlugins,
   proxy             => 'https://USERNAME:PASSWORD@secure.citap.be/authorization/hibye.cgi',
   namespace         => $namespace,
   method            => $method,
   registerNamespace => \%soapService_Register_NS,
   xmlContent        => $xmlContent,
   params            => $params,
   cookies           => 1,
   perfdataLabel     => 'SOAP with Basic Authentication'
 );

 ($returnCode, $xml) = get_soap_request ( 
   asnmtapInherited  => \$objectPlugins,
   proxy             => 'https://secure.citap.be/authorization/hibye.cgi',
   credentials       => [ 'secure.citap.be:443', "ASNMTAP's Authorization Access", 'USERNAME' => 'PASSWORD' ],
   namespace         => $namespace,
   method            => $method,
   registerNamespace => \%soapService_Register_NS,
   xmlContent        => $xmlContent,
   params            => $params,
   cookies           => 1,
   perfdataLabel     => 'SOAP with Credentials'
 );

 unless ( $returnCode ) {
   if (defined $xml) {
     ...
   } else {
     ...
   }
 }

 $objectPlugins->exit (7);

=head1 Description

=head2 SOAP::Lite based functions.

SOAP::Lite for Perl is a collection of Perl modules which provides a simple and 
lightweight interface to the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP, also known as 
Service Oriented Access Protocol) both on client and server side.

=over 4

=item get_soap_request()

SOAP is a simple XML-based protocol to let applications exchange information over HTTP.

More information regarding SOAP can be find at URI: http://www.w3schools.com/soap/

Returns a status for $returnCode (OK..UNKNOWN) and when the status is OK for $xml the extracted XML if exists, otherwise undef.

=over 4

=item asnmtapInherited

A required reference to an ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins or ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins::Nagios subclass

Through this way of working we inherited the command line option I<--debug>.

=item custom

optional, is an reference to your own custom defined function

$som: the SOM object provides a simple API for accessing any aspect of
the response's SOAP envelope, a result object from SOAP::Lite.

 sub actionOnSoapResponse {
   my ($asnmtapInherited, $som) = @_;
   return ($returnCode);
 }

and now with customArguments:

 sub actionOnSoapResponse {
   my ($asnmtapInherited, $som, $arguments) = @_;
   return ($returnCode);
 }

=item customArguments

optional, when you need to pass parameters to your own custom defined function, this can be done with customArguments.

 customArguments: SCALAR, ARRAY, HASH,
                  REF SCALAR, REF ARRAY, REF HASH

=item proxy

This lets you specify an endpoint (service address) and also loads the required module at the same time.

 proxy: 'http://services.soaplite.com/hibye.cgi'

When using SOAP with basic authentication you can add username and password to your URL as follows:

 proxy: 'http://USERNAME:PASSWORD@services.soaplite.com/hibye.cgi'

a required scalar.

=item credentials

Set the user name and password to be used for a realm.

 credentials: [ $hostname_port, $realm, $username, $password ]

              [ 'secure.citap.be:443', "ASNMTAP's Authorization Access", 'USERNAME' => 'PASSWORD' ]

a optional array.

=item namespace

Sets the URI that will be used as the namespace for the resulting XML entity.

 namespace: 'http://www.soaplite.com/Demo'

a required scalar.

=item registerNamespace

The register_ns subroutine allows users to register a global namespace with the SOAP Envelope.

 registerNamespace:

 %soapService_Register_NS = (
  'http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/mime/' => 'mime',
   'http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema'      => 's'
 );

a required hash.

=item method

The name is what the serializer will use for the tag when generating the XML for this object.

 method: SOAP::Data->name(hi)->attr( {xmlns => 'http://www.soaplite.com/Demo'} );

a required SOAP::Data->name definition

=item soapaction

This lets you specify a handler for on_action event. It is triggered when creating SOAPAction. 
The default handler will set SOAPAction to "uri/method". 
You can change this behavior, for a particular object to "uri/soapaction".
To remove the soapaction you say soapaction => '',

optional scalar, soapaction

=item xmlContent

Parsing XML formatted data.

 xmlContent:
 
 <soapRequest>
   <registrationType>xmlRegistrationType</registrationType>
   <language>xmlLanguage</language>
   <orderBy>xmlOrderBy</orderBy>
 </soapRequest>

optional scalar, xmlContent is one XML

=item params

 params: SOAP::Data->name('req')->type('string')->value(xmlContent);

optional scalar, params is one SOAP::Data->name definition

=item envprefix

optional, envprefix, default 'soapenv'

=item encprefix

optional, encprefix, default 'soapenc'

=item encodingStyle

To change the encodingStyle you say encodingStyle => 'http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/',

To remove the encodingStyle you say encodingStyle => '',

=item readable

This lets you specify the format for the generated XML code.
Carriage returns <CR> and indentation will be added for readability.
Useful in the case you want to see the generated code in a debugger.
By default, there are no additional characters in generated XML code.

optional, readable can be 0 or 1

 0, there are no additional characters in generated XML code (default)
 1, carriage returns <CR> and indentation will be added for readability

=item cookies

For clients that are sensitive to cookie-based authentication.

optional, cookies can be 0 or 1

 0, without cookies (default)
 1, with cookies

=item perfdataLabel

This means that there performance data will be created and the name for the label equals the value from perfdataLabel.

Is an scalar (value is a string), ex. 'Label x'

=item PATCH_HTTP_KEEPALIVE

optional, PATCH_HTTP_KEEPALIVE can be 0 or 1

 0, without PATCH_HTTP_KEEPALIVE (default)
 1, with PATCH_HTTP_KEEPALIVE

=item WSRF

optional, WSRF can be 0 or 1

 0, without WSRF::Lite (default)
 1, with WSRF::Lite

=item TYPE_ERROR_RETURN

optional, TYPE_ERROR_RETURN can be REPLACE, APPEND, INSERT, COMMA_APPEND or COMMA_INSERT

 REPLACE      : replace error (default)
 APPEND       : append to error
 INSERT       : insert to error
 COMMA_APPEND : add comma and append to error
 COMMA_INSERT : add comma and insert to error

=back

=back

=head1 EXPORT

=head2 TAGS

=over 4

=item *

ALL

 &get_soap_request

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Alex Peeters [alex.peeters@citap.be]

=head1 SEE ALSO

ASNMTAP::Asnmtap, ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins

  check_template-SOAP.pl

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

  ASNMTAP::Asnmtap::Plugins
  SOAP::Lite

  Dependencies SOAP::Lite:
  libwww-perl
  MIME::Base64
  URI
  WSRF::Lite
  XML::Parser

  Dependencies WSRF::Lite:
  DateTime
  DateTime::Format::Epoch
  DateTime::Format::W3CDTF
  Digest::SHA1
  Crypt::OpenSSL::RSA
  Crypt::OpenSSL::X509
  HTTP::Daemon::SSL
  Sys::Hostname::Long
  XML::CanonicalizeXML
  XML::DOM

  Following modules will be loaded on demand only, and are considered optional:
  Crypt::SSLeay     HTTPS/SSL support
  Apache            mod_perl server implementation (included with mod_perl)
  Net::POP3         POP3 server implementation
  MIME::Lite        SMTP client implementation
  IO::File          FTP client and IO server
  Net::FTP          FTP client
  MQSeries          MQSeries transport
  Net::Jabber       Jabber transport
  FCGI              FastCGI server implementation
  IO::Socket::SSL   SSL support for TCP transport
  MIME::Tools       MIME attachment support
  DIME::Tools       DIME attachment support
  Compress::Zlib    HTTP compression support

=head1 COPYRIGHT NOTICE

(c) Copyright 2000-2011 by Alex Peeters [alex.peeters@citap.be],
                        All Rights Reserved.

ASNMTAP is based on 'Process System daemons v1.60.17-01', Alex Peeters [alex.peeters@citap.be]

 Purpose: CronTab (CT, sysdCT),
          Disk Filesystem monitoring (DF, sysdDF),
          Intrusion Detection for FW-1 (ID, sysdID)
          Process System daemons (PS, sysdPS),
          Reachability of Remote Hosts on a network (RH, sysdRH),
          Rotate Logfiles (system activity files) (RL),
          Remote Socket monitoring (RS, sysdRS),
          System Activity monitoring (SA, sysdSA).

'Process System daemons' is based on 'sysdaemon 1.60' written by Trans-Euro I.T Ltd

=head1 LICENSE

This ASNMTAP CPAN library and Plugin templates are free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The other parts of ASNMTAP may be used and modified free of charge by anyone so long as this copyright notice and the comments above remain intact. By using this code you agree to indemnify Alex Peeters from any liability that might arise from it's use.

Selling the code for this program without prior written consent is expressly forbidden. In other words, please ask first before you try and make money off of my program.

Obtain permission before redistributing this software over the Internet or in any other medium. In all cases copyright and header must remain intact.

=cut
