=head1 NAME

Protocol::WebSocket::XS::ConnectRequest - Client-initiated HTTP request for establishing websocket connection



=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Protocol::WebSocket::XS;

    # client creates connect requests
    my $request = Protocol::WebSocket::XS::ConnectRequest->new({
        uri           => "ws://example.com/",
        headers       => {'Origin' => 'http://www.crazypanda.ru'},
        ws_version    => 13,
        ws_protocol   => "chat",
        ws_extensions => [["ext1"], ["ext2", {arg1 => 1}]],
        # ... other params that Protocol::HTTP::Request supports
    });
    
    # server parses connect requests
    $request = $server_parser->accept($data);

    $request->ws_key;
    $request->ws_version;
    $request->ws_protocol;
    $request->ws_extensions;
    $request->error;
    

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A request for connecting to websocket server. This class extends L<Protocol::HTTP::Request> with websocket-related details, so all methods of
L<Protocol::HTTP::Request> also apply.



=head1 METHODS

=head2 new([\%params])

Creates new connect request object from params (or empty, if no params specified).

Parameters are everything that L<Protocol::HTTP::Request>'s C<new()> supports plus the following:

=over

=item ws_key

See L<rfc6455|https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6455> (look for C<Sec-WebSocket-Key>)

=item ws_version

See L<rfc6455|https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6455> (look for C<Sec-WebSocket-Version>).

Version must be at least C<13> because previous versions were buggy.

=item ws_protocol

Identifies application specific communication protocol.

See L<rfc6455|https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6455> (look for C<Sec-WebSocket-Protocol>).

=item ws_extensions => \@extensions

Additional extensions, which client would like to use. The extensions, which are provided
by the module and enabled by user (default), will be added automatically by
L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::ClientParser>.

=back

=head2 ws_key([$key])

Get/set websocket key.


=head2 ws_version([$version])

Get/set websocket version.


=head2 ws_protocol([$protocol])

Get/set application specific communication protocol


=head2 ws_extensions([\@extensions])

Get/set websocket additional extensions


=head2 ws_version_supported()

Returns true if websocket version is supported by the package


=head2 error

L<XS::ErrorCode> object which represents Perl API for convenient
C++ C<std::error_code> subsystem. Possible errors are described in
L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::Error>, L<Protocol::HTTP::Error>.



=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS>

L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::ClientParser>

L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::ConnectResponse>

L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::ServerParser>

L<URI::XS>

L<Protocol::HTTP::Request>

L<XS::ErrorCode>

L<Protocol::HTTP::Error>

=cut
