=head1 NAME

Protocol::WebSocket::XS::Parser - Websocket parser

=cut

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Protocol::WebSocket::XS;

    my $parser = Protocol::WebSocket::XS::ClientParser->new;
    
    $parser->configure({
        max_frame_size     => 0,
        max_message_size   => 0,
        max_handshake_size => 0,
        deflate => {
            server_max_window_bits     => 15,
            client_max_window_bits     => 15,
            client_no_context_takeover => 0,
            server_no_context_takeover => 0,
            mem_level                  => 8,
            compression_level          => -1,
            strategy                   => 0,
            compression_threshold      => 1410,
        },
    });
    
    ...

    $data = $parser->send_ping;
    $data = $parser->send_message(opcode => OPCODE_TEXT, payload => 'hello world');
    my @messages = $parser->get_messages($data);



=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::Parser> contains common implementation for L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::ClientParser> and L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::ServerParser>.
No direct class instantiation is possible.

The instance of L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::Parser> keeps track of state (established connection, closed etc.)
and might contain some not parsed (incomplete) data.



=head1 METHODS

=head2 configure(\%params)

Performs parser configuration. If connection is already established, some settings might have no effect.

Available parameters (default values are provided in brackets):

=over

=item max_frame_size [0 = unlimited]

Max size of a message frame in bytes.

=item max_message_size [0 = unlimited]

Max size of a message in bytes.
If compression is in use, this is the max size of a decompressed message.

=item max_handshake_size [0 = unlimited]

Max size of connect request (for server parser) or connect response (for client parser) headers.

=item deflate

Compression configuration. Can't be changed after connection is established (changes are ignored).

Provided as a hashref with the following possible parameters:

=over

=item server_max_window_bits [15]

This parameter has a decimal integer value without leading zeroes between 9 to 15, inclusive, indicating the base-2 logarithm of the LZ77 sliding window size.

By including this parameter in an extension negotiation offer, a client limits the LZ77 sliding window size that the server will use to compress messages.
If the peer server uses a small LZ77 sliding window to compress messages, the client can reduce the memory needed for the LZ77 sliding window.

This option MAY be set by client-side.

=item client_max_window_bits [15]

This parameter has a decimal integer value without leading zeroes between 9 to 15, inclusive, indicating the base-2 logarithm of the LZ77 sliding window size.

A client informs server, that it is not going to use an LZ77 sliding window size greater than the size specified by the value in the extension
negotiation offer to compress messages.

By including this extension parameter in an extension negotiation response, a server limits the LZ77 sliding window size that the client uses to compress messages.
This reduces the amount of memory for the decompression context that the server has to reserve for the connection.

This option MAY be set by client-side.

=item client_no_context_takeover [false]

A a client informs the peer server of a hint that the client is not going to use context takeover.

This reduces the amount of memory that the server has to reserve for the connection by the cost of reducing session compression ratio.

=item server_no_context_takeover

By including this extension parameter in an extension negotiation offer, a client prevents the peer server from using context takeover.
If the peer server doesn't use context takeover, the client doesn't need to reserve memory to retain the LZ77 sliding window between messages
by the cost of reducing session compression ratio.

=item mem_level [8]

Specifies how much memory should be allocated for the internal compression state.
C<mem_level=1> uses minimum memory leading to slow compression speed and reduces compression ratio.
C<mem_level=9> uses maximum of the memory for optimal speed.

=item compression_level [-1]

=over

=item -1 - default compression

=item 0 - no compression

=item 1 - best speed

=item 9 - best compression

=back

=item strategy [0]

The parameter is used to tune the compression algorithm.

=over

=item 0 - default startegy

=item 1 - filtered

=item 2 - huffman only

=item 3 - RLE

=item 4 - fixed

=back

=item compression_threshold [1410]

The minimum size of text I<message> payload to let the payload be compressed.

Default value is C<1410>, i.e. when the message payload is going to exceed one TCP-segment, it will be compressed in the hope that it still be able to fit in.

This parameter is not used when message is created manually frame by frame, i.e. by frame builder

    $parser->start_message()

as the whole message size is not known at the moment. It's developer
responsibility to decide, whether compress message or not:

    parser->start_message(deflate => 0 | 1)

=back

See L<rfc7692|https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7692> and L<zlib manual|https://www.zlib.net/manual.html> for more details.

=back


=head2 no_deflate()

Disables usage of C<permessage-deflate> compression extension at connection
negotiation phase.


=head2 max_frame_size()

Returns max_frame_size setting.


=head2 max_message_size()

Returns max_message_size setting.


=head2 max_handshake_size()

Returns max_handshake_size setting.


=head2 deflate_config()

Returns deflate config as hashref. See L<configure>


=head2 effective_deflate_config()

Returns deflate config of the currently established connection as hashref.
It might be different than the default L<deflate_config>.


=head2 established()

Returns C<true> if connection has been established,
i.e. for client-side if parser successfully parsed server response and for server-side if C<accept_response> has been invoked.


=head2 recv_closed()

Returns true if parser received close packet from peer, that is no further frames/messages are expected from peer.


=head2 send_closed()

Returns true if parser sent close packet to peer, that is no further frames/messages are expected to be sent to peer.


=head2 is_deflate_active()

Returns true if connection has been established and peer has agreed to use per-message deflate extension.


=head2 get_frames([$data])

Tries to parse frames from C<$data>.

In list context it returns all fully arrived frames L<frames|Protocol::WebSocket::XS::Frame> and consumes all of the C<$data>.

In scalar context, if at least one frame is fully arrived, it returns L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::FrameIterator> which is a lazy frame iterator (parses on-the-fly).
Otherwise returns undef.

This operation is destructive, i.e. once parsed, data is removed from internal buffer and accessible only via high-level interface,
i.e. as L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::Frame> or L<FrameIterator|Protocol::WebSocket::XS::FrameIterator>

This method enables C<frame-by-frame> receiving mode, so that you can't mix it will C<get_messages()> calls. Once you've started receiving a message
frame-by-frame you have to continue receiving until final frame arrives, but no more than final frame! Thus if you want to mix frame/message mode you
should use scalar context iterator interface (because list context will return all received frames, possibly even after final frame).
After that you can safely swith to C<whole-message-mode> by calling C<get_messages>. In other words, switching between C<get_frames()> / C<get_messages()>
is only possible when you are between two messages.


=head2 get_messages([$data])

Tries to parse messages from from C<$data>.

In list context it returns all fully arrived L<messages|Protocol::WebSocket::XS::Message> and consumes all of the C<$data>.

In scalar context, if at least one message is fully arrived, it returns L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::MessageIterator> which is a lazy message iterator (parses on-the-fly).
Otherwise returns undef.

This operation is destructive, i.e. once parsed data is be removed from internal buffer and accessible only via high-level interface,
i.e. as L<Message|Protocol::WebSocket::XS::Message> or L<MessageIterator|Protocol::WebSocket::XS::MessageIterator>.

This method can't be called until current message is fully received if you earlier called C<get_frames()>. See C<get_frames()> description.

If you plan to switch to C<get_frames()> mode, you should only use scalar context iterator interface, because list context may consume
consequent frames from the next message.


=head2 start_message(opcode => [OPCODE_BINARY], deflate => [0])

Start multiframe message.

Returns new L<FrameSender|Protocol::WebSocket::XS::FrameSender>, assuming that a developer will manually compose message from frames.

    my $sender = $parser->start_message(opcode => OPCODE_TEXT, deflate => 0);
    $sender->send("hello ");
    $sender->send("world")
    $sender->send("!!!", 1); # final frame

Options can be:

=over

=item deflate

Use compression for the B<whole message> or not.

=item opcode

B<Message> opcode (from L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS>). Should be either C<OPCODE_TEXT> or C<OPCODE_BINARY>.

=back


=head2 send_control($opcode, [$payload = ''])

Returns serialized single frame control message with the specified opcode and optional payload.

Max payload length is 125, everything bigger will be trimmed.

The constructed frame is always final and is never compressed.

See L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS> for available opcodes.


=head2 send_ping([$payload = ''])

Same as C<send_control(OPCODE_PING, $payload)>.


=head2 send_pong([$payload = ''])

Same as C<send_control(OPCODE_PONG, $payload)>.


=head2 send_close($code, [$payload = ''])

Returns serialized close frame with the specified code and optional payload.

See L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS> for available close code constants.

Max payload length is 123, everythin bigger will be trimmed.

The constructed frame is always final and is never compressed.


=head2 send_message(payload => $msg|\@msg, opcode => [OPCODE_BINARY], deflate => [unspecified])

Returns serialized single frame message with the supplied payload data.

C<payload> can be a string or arrayref of strings

When C<deflate> option is specified, then the payload is either compressed
or not. Otherwise, if C<deflate> option is not specified, then compression
is determined by the following policy:

If the C<opcode> is C<OPCODE_BINARY>, then compression is not applied.

If the C<opcode> is C<OPCODE_TEXT> and payload length exceeds
C<compression_threshold> (see L<configure>) then compression is applied.

Otherwise payload is sent uncompressed.

Example:

    my $data = $parser->send_message(
        opcode  => OPCODE_TEXT,
        deflate => 1,
        payload => 'Lorem ipsum dolor',
    );


=head2 send_message_multiframe(payload => \@strings, opcode => [OPCODE_BINARY], deflate => [unspecified])

This method sends one message as multiple frames. It is useful if it is
desirable to preserve payload decomposition into multiple pieces, which
will be serialized as multiple frames.

See L<send_message> for parameters.

NOTE: parameter C<payload> must be an arrayref of strings. Each string in array will be sent as a separate frame.

    my $data = $parser->send_message_multiframe(
        opcode  => OPCODE_BINARY,
        payload => [qw/Lorem ipsum dolor/],
    );


=head2 reset()

Clears internal state and reset buffer.



=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS>

L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::ClientParser>

L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::ConnectRequest>

L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::ConnectResponse>

L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::Frame>

L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::FrameSender>

L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::FrameIterator>

L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::Message>

L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::MessageIterator>

L<Protocol::WebSocket::XS::ServerParser>

L<rfc6455|https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6455>

L<rfc7692|https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7692>

L<zlib|https://www.zlib.net>

=cut
