# ABSTRACT: Simple Riap protocol over any stream socket
# PODNAME: Riap::Simple

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Riap::Simple - Simple Riap protocol over any stream socket

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 1.2.4 of Riap::Simple (from Perl distribution Riap), released on 2015-09-04.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This document specifies a simple L<Riap> protocol over any stream socket like
TCP, Unix, or piping to program.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Riap::Simple is a simpler alternative to L<Riap::HTTP>. It supports less
features (currently only supports sending/receiving Riap request and response in
JSON encoding, no encryption, no authentication, no sending of logging
messages). It is suitable for localhost/localnet communication (e.g. between
processes of different languages). For public-facing service, Riap::HTTP is more
recommended.

Riap::Simple does not support Rinci's input/output stream.

=head2 Request

B<Client> first sends a request line of the following format:

 "j" <JSON> <CRLF>

That is, the lowercase letter C<j> followed by JSON data (must all be in one
line), followed by CRLF.

=head2 Response

 "j" <JSON> <CRLF>

That is, the lowercase letter C<j> followed by enveloped result encoded in JSON
(will all be in one line) and a single <CRLF>. The next request can then be sent
by client.

If client/server sends an invalid request/response line, the connection can be
closed.

=head1 PROTOCOL VERSION

 1.2

=head1 EXAMPLES

Below are some examples of what is sent and received on the wire.

 j{"v":0.9}
 j[501,"Protocol version not implemented"]

 j{
 j[400,"Invalid JSON"]

 j{"action":"call","uri":"/Math/mult","args":{"a":2,"b":3}}
 j[200,"OK",6]

 j{"v":1.2,"action":"call","uri":"/Math/mult","args":{"a":2,"b":4}}
 j[200,"OK",8,{"riap.v":1.2}]

 j{"v":1.1,"action":"info","uri":"/Math/mult"}
 j[200,"OK",{"type":"function","uri":"/Math/mult"}]

An example of sending and returning binary data (Riap v1.2 only):

 j{"v":1.2,"action":"call","uri":"/bitflip","args":{"data:base64":"AAAA"}}
 j[200,"OK","////",{"riap.v":1.2,"riap.result_encoding":"base64"}]

The example belows shows calling a function that bit-flips 0x000000 into
0xffffff.

=head1 FAQ

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Riap>, L<Riap::HTTP>

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Riap>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Riap>.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Riap>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2015 by perlancar@cpan.org.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
