# ABSTRACT: Transactions/undo/redo over Riap
# PODNAME: Riap::Transaction

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Riap::Transaction - Transactions/undo/redo over Riap

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 1.2.4 of Riap::Transaction (from Perl distribution Riap), released on 2015-09-04.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This document specifies doing transactions/undo/redo over Riap.

=head1 SPECIFICATION VERSION

 1.2

=head1 SPECIFICATION

This documentation specifies a set of Riap actions to do transaction/undo/redo
over Riap. The actions basically correspond to TM's methods of the same/similar
name, so please refer to L<Rinci::Transaction> for more details on each
action/method.

For these actions, Riap request key C<uri> can be set to C</> as it is
irrelevant.

=head2 Action: B<begin_tx>

Additional Riap request keys: C<tx_id>

=over 4

=back

Some notes:

C<tx_id> should ideally be hard to guess by other clients, for security.

C<tx_id> should be passed as a Riap request key to every subsequent C<call>
request or any one of transaction-management actions described on this list,
until the transaction is committed or rolled back.

Riap requests which does not incorporate C<tx_id> key should not be affected by
transaction management. But some servers, in order to maintain ACID property,
can require that all subsequent C<call> requests be inside some transaction.
Call without transaction can be responded with 412 status in such case.

=head2 Action: C<commit_tx>

Additional required Riap request keys: C<tx_id>.

=head2 Action: B<savepoint_tx>

Additional required Riap request keys: C<tx_id>, C<tx_spid>.

=head2 Action: B<rollback_tx>

Additional required Riap request keys: C<tx_id>

Optional Riap request keys: C<tx_spid>

Rollback the transaction, or (if C<tx_spid> is specified) rollback to a specific
savepoint.

=head2 Action: B<release_tx_savepoint>

Additional required Riap request keys: C<tx_id>, C<tx_spid>

=head2 Action: B<list_txs>

Additional required Riap request keys: C<tx_id>

List client's transactions. Should return an array containing transaction ID's.

Optional request key: C<detail> (bool, default false, is set to true will return
an array of result records instead), C<tx_status> (str, filter by transaction
status).

Example:

 # Riap request
 {"action":"list_txs", "uri":"/", "detail":1}

 # result
 [200, "OK",
  [
   {"tx_id": "TX1", "tx_status":"C", "tx_start_time":1336043060,
    "tx_commit_time":1336043065, "tx_summary":"Some summary"},
   {"tx_id": "TX2", "tx_status":"C", "tx_start_time":1336043070,
    "tx_commit_time":1336043071, "tx_summary":null},
   {"tx_id": "TX3", "tx_status":"i", "tx_start_time":1336043090,
    "tx_commit_time":null, "tx_summary":"Some summary"},
  ],
  {"riap.v":1.2}
 ]

=head2 Action: B<undo>

Optional Riap request keys: C<tx_id>.

Undo a committed transaction (defaults to the newest committed transaction).

=head2 Action: B<redo>

Optional Riap request keys: C<tx_id>.

Redo a committed transaction (defaults to the newest undone committed
transaction).

=head2 Action: B<discard_tx>

Additional required Riap request keys: C<tx_id>.

=head2 Action: B<discard_all_txs>

Additional required Riap request keys: none.

Discard all committed transactions for this client.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Riap>

L<Rinci::Transaction>

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Riap>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Riap>.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Riap>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2015 by perlancar@cpan.org.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
