=head0 Some Document

Here is some ignorable text.

=head1 A Heading

=begin programlisting

  "This text should not be escaped -- it is normal $text."

=end programlisting

  This indented text should come through unmodified too -- it is also "normal"
  $text.

=begin screen

  This should also be $unm0d+ified

=end screen

=begin blockquote

Blockquoted text may or may not need "escaped".  I haven't decided.

=end blockquote

=head2 B heading

Encode the noble octothorpe, #, and the slash used for escaping: \.  There are
lots of other escapable characters, including $ & % and _.  The curly braces,
{}, get escaped too.  The tilde, ~, has something special too.

"The interesting thing is that when you use double quotes," he said, "they turn
into double single quotes going in the correct direction."

The caret ^ is interesting too.

=head3 c heading

When you leave out words, add an ellipsis... and get out an escaped version.

Words like flame, filk, and ineffable have interesting ligatures -- and you
need a bit of work to make the typography work out nicely.

Diacritics are more difficult E<aacute> la the naE<iuml>ve attachE<egrave> and
the E<copy> caper, E<plusmn> some constant.  FranE<ccedilla>aise has some fun
ones.

=for sidebar

Hello, this is a sidebar

=end

X<Special formatting> is B<very> important, especially in C<code-like
text>, for special F<emphasis>, and I<semantic-only emphasis>N<but
beware of footnotes!>. Try to format correctly Google URL: U<<
http://www.google.com/ >>.

Index entries are more fun, as more special characters must be escaped, with
a quote sign. E.g. X<negation ! operator>, X<array @ sigil>, X<the pipe |>
and X<strange quote a"a>.

More, we should be able to have superscripts like I<E = mcG<2>> or
subscripts, like I<HH<2>O>.

=for latex

  Sometimes it would be good to send direct commands to \LaTeX
  Indentation should not be verbatim. Nothing should be touched.

=end

Hierarchical terms are also possible, separating single terms with a comma.
Spaces around comma (e.g. in X< hierarchical terms , omiting trailing spaces>)
should be ignored, as they influence sorting order.
 

Lists are fun:

=over 4

=item Verbatim

=item List

=item items

=back

Bulleted lists rule too:

=over 4

=item * BANG

=item * $BANG BANG$

And they might have more lines. And they _ are $ properly %  escaped.

=item * BANGERANG!

=back

Definition lists are useful:

=over 4

=item wakawaka

What Pac-Man says.

=item has_method

And add_method are escaped

=item ook ook

What the librarian says.

=back

Numeric lists are more fun:

=over 4

=item 2

First

=item 33

Second

=item 77

Fooled you!

=back

=begin foo Title

Something

=end foo

=begin figure Figure Title

This is the figure body!

=end figure




