=head1 NAME

TiVo::Calypso - a Perl interface to the TiVo Calypso protocol

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use TiVo::Calypso;
  
  my $server = TiVo::Calypso::Server->new(
      SERVER_NAME => "My Server",
      CACHE_DIR   => "/tmp"
  );
  
  my $music_service = TiVo::Calypso::Container::Music->new(
      TITLE     => "Music Library",
      PATH      => "/mp3",      
      SERVICE   => "/Music",
      SCROBBLER =>
      {
          POSTURL  => 'http://post.audioscrobbler.com',
          USERNAME => 'scrobbleuser',
          PASSWORD => 'p4ssw0rd'
      }
  );
  
  $server->add_service( $music_service );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TiVo::Calypso provides a Perl interface to the TiVo Calypso protocol,
allowing development of custom server and CGI applications to act as
a media source for the TiVo consumer platform.

TiVo::Calypso depends on the following third-party modules for
full functionality:

  Storable        ( enables caching )
  Digest::MD5     ( enables caching )
  IO::File        ( enables general file serving )
  MP3::Info       ( enables MP3 serving )
  LWP::Simple     ( AudioScrobbling )

TiVo::Calypso defines the following classes:

  TiVo::Calypso::Server
      TiVo::Calypso::Request
      TiVo::Calypso::Container
          TiVo::Calypso::Container::Server
          TiVo::Calypso::Container::Music
      TiVo::Calypso::Item
          TiVo::Calypso::Item::MP3

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item TiVo::Calypso::Server->new()

Expects a hash of arguments to define the new Calypso server:

=over 4

=item SERVER_NAME

defines the string by which the server identifies itself.
It is purely cosmetic. (optional)

=item CACHE_DIR

defines the directory used to cache data objects and scaled
images. This directory must be readable and writable in order for
caching to take place.

=back

=item TiVo::Calypso::Server->add_service()

Expects to be passed a TiVo::Container object which will be added to
the master list of services available on this server.

=item TiVo::Calypso::Server->request( $script_name, $path_info, $query_string )

Expects to be passed three scalars (or a single predefined
TiVo::Calypso::Request object) of the same format as the environment
variables SCRIPT_NAME, PATH_INFO, and QUERY_STRING defined by a
standard web server.

TiVo::Calypso::Server->request returns a list with 2 elements.  The first
element is a reference to a hash which contains the recommended HTTP
headers to be returned to the client. The second element is a reference
to either a scalar or an IO::File object, depending on the type of
data requested.

TiVo::Calypso::Server->request returns undef on a bad request.

=item TiVo::Calypso::Container::Music->new()
    
Expects a hash of arguments to define a service (directory of content):

=over 4

=item PATH

defines the directory on the local filesystem to search for content
to be made available via this service.

=item SERVICE

is the virtual directory name which will be used to describe this
service in URLs.

=item TITLE
    
is the descriptive label which will be used to describe this service
in messages from the server.  (optional)

=back

=back

=head1 MODIFICATIONS

TiVo::Calypso is a branch of TiVo.pm, originally released by TiVo Inc.
TiVo.pm has been declared 'dead' by TiVo Inc. and released into the
public domain.

Additional modifications since the initial 1.0 release from TiVo
include the following:

Aggressive caching has been fixed.

A smarter sort method has been implemented.

AudioScrobbler (last.fm) support has been added.  The synopsis should
be enough to explain how to use it.

TiVo::Calypso::Container::Music now defaults to an alphabetical list
for browsing.  200+ artists made browsing terribly slow/painful.

=head1 AUTHOR

TiVo.pm was initially written by TiVo, Inc.

Modifications and maintenance of TiVo::Calypso is now done by Scott
Schneider <sschneid@gmail.com>.

=cut

