=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Module::Package::Tutorial - A Hands on Guide

=head1 INTRODUCTION

Welcome to Module::Package. This tutorial is for people who want to package
modules for CPAN, who want to make sure they are doing it the best they can,
but who also want to spend more time working on their code than on becoming an
expert packager. This tutorial is also for people who want to take their time
and effort spent on packaging, and share new ideas and tricks with others.

I'll start by taking a typical Makefile.PL written with Module::Install and
show you how to turn this into various Module::Package configurations,
eventually ending up with a single line Makefile.PL. Then I'll show you the
ins and outs of making your own Module::Install plugin module to handle your
common needs.

=head1 Makefile.PL 2.0

I won't start with 1.0. Those days are long past. Here's what a typical
Makefile.PL looks like these days.

    use strict;
    use inc::Module::Install;

    name            'Foo-Bar';
    all_from        'lib/Foo/Bar.pm';
    build_requires  'Test::More';

    auto_include_deps;
    sign;

    WriteAll;

... This doc is a work in progress. Stay tuned ...

Here's the the final version:

    use Module::Package 'All:good';

=head1 AUTHOR

Ingy döt Net <ingy@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2011. Ingy döt Net.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

See http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html

=cut
