=head1 NAME

CONTRIBUTING

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Information on contributing to SVN::Web

=head1 DESCRIPTION

If you interested in contributing to SVN::Web there are several areas that
could definitely benefit from third party improvement.

=head2 Localising

All the English text in the templates B<should> be localised.  This makes
creating a new localisation as simple as adding the appropriate message
catalog file to F<lib/SVN/Web/I18N/>.  If you have taken the time to
localise SVN::Web to your own language please send the message catalog to
the maintainers for inclusion in future releases.

=head2 Templates

It is very easy to change SVN::Web's look by creating a new set of templates
and adjusting the C<templatedir> configuration directive.  If you've created
a new template set (perhaps to have SVN::Web's output mimic that of another
web based repository browser) then please contribute it back to the
maintainers for inclusion in future releases.

=head2 New actions

SVN::Web's design makes it simple to add new actions.  See L<SVN::Web::action>
for details.

If you've created a new action then please contribute it back to the maintainers
for inclusion in future releases.

Some ideas for new actions include:

=over

=item help

Would display help to the user.

=item atom

Similar to the C<rss> action, but generating ATOM format output instead.

=back

Or look on CPAN for SVN related modules that could be usefully integrated.
Perhaps L<SVN::Log::Index> or L<SVN::Churn> could form the basis of useful
actions.

=head2 Bug reports and fixes

Of course, if you discover any bugs in SVN::Web please report them back to
the maintainers.  It's even more useful if you're able to include a test
case that reliably reproduces the bug.

Naturally, fixes for these bugs are even more useful.  Please see the
L<SVN::Web/BUGS> section in L<SVN::Web> for information about reporting
bugs.
