
=head1 NAME

Nes::Plugin::API - API for Plugin.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Nes;
    my $nes      = Nes::Singleton->new('template.nhtml');
    my $register = $nes->{'register'}; 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

API for create Nes Plugins.

=head1 

*** Unimplemented **** much work and little time, sorry :-)

=head1 AUTHOR

Skriptke: Enrique Castanon

=head1 VERSION

Version 1.03 April 2010

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) Enrique F. Castanon Barbero. All rights reserved.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms and conditions as
GNU Public License (GPL).

This means that you can, at your option, redistribute it and/or 
modify it under either the terms the GNU Public License (GPL), 
or under the Perl Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/

=head1 DISCLAIMER

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Use of this software in any way or in any form, source or binary,
is not allowed in any country which prohibits disclaimers of any
implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular
purpose or any disclaimers of a similar nature.

IN NO EVENT SHALL I BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,  OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, LOST PROFITS) EVEN IF I HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Nes>. L<Nes::Tutorial>, L<Nes::Singleton>, 
Sample to use Nes; L<http://nes.sourceforge.net/>

=cut

