=head1 NAME

UI::Dialog::Gauged - wrapper support of gauge related functions.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use UI::Dialog::Gauged;
  my $d = new UI::Dialog::Gauged ( title => 'Default title',
                                  height => 20, width => 65 ,
                                  listheight => 5,
                                  order => [ 'zenity', 'xdialog' ] );

  # Either a Zenity or Xdialog msgbox widget should popup,
  # with a preference for Zenity.
  $d->msgbox( title => 'Welcome!', text => 'Welcome one and all!' );

=head1 ABSTRACT

UI::Dialog::Gauged is simply another meta-class for UI::Dialog. This
class simply has a different order of priority than UI::Dialog and only
uses backends that support a standard set of gauge related functions.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class is simply a nice way to try and ensure a GNOME based widget set.

=head1 EXPORT

=over 2

None

=back

=head1 INHERITS

=over 2

UI::Dialog

=back

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=head2 new( @options )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 my $d = new( title => 'Default Title', backtitle => 'Backtitle',
              width => 65, height => 20, listheight => 5,
              order => [ 'zenity', 'xdialog' ] );

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

This is the Class Constructor method. It accepts a list of key => value pairs
and uses them as the defaults when interacting with the various widgets.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

A blessed object reference of the UI::Dialog::Gauged class.

=back

=item OPTIONS

The (...)'s after each option indicate the default for the option.

=over 6

=item B<debug = 0,1,2> (0)

=item B<order = [ zenity, xdialog, cdialog, whiptail ]> (as indicated)

=item B<PATH = [ /bin, /usr/bin, /usr/local/bin, /opt/bin ]> (as indicated)

=item B<backtitle = "backtitle"> ('')

=item B<title = "title"> ('')

=item B<beepbefore = 0,1> (0)

=item B<beepafter = 0,1> (0)

=item B<height = \d+> (20)

=item B<width = \d+> (65)

=item B<listheight = \d+> (5)

=back

=back

=head1 WIDGET METHODS

=head2 gauge_start( )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 $d->gauge_start( text => 'gauge...', percentage => 1 );

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

Display a meter bar to the user. This get's the widget realized but requires
the use of the other gauge_*() methods for functionality.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

TRUE (1) if the widget loaded fine and FALSE (0) for anything else.

=back

=back

=head2 gauge_inc( )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 $d->gauge_inc( 1 );

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

Increment the meter by the given amount.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

TRUE (1) if the widget incremented fine and FALSE (0) for anything else.

=back

=back

=head2 gauge_set( )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 $d->gauge_set( 99 );

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

Set the meter bar to the given amount.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

TRUE (1) if the widget set fine and FALSE (0) for anything else.

=back

=back

=head2 gauge_text( )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 $d->gauge_text( 'string' );

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

Set the meter bar message to the given string.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

TRUE (1) if the widget set fine and FALSE (0) for anything else.

=back

=back

=head2 gauge_stop( )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 $d->gauge_stop();

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

End the meter bar widget process. One of the flaws with gdialog is that the
gauge widget does not close properly and requies the end user to close the
gauge window when 100% has been reached. This is the second reason why I'm
glad gdialog is going the way of the dodo.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

TRUE (1) if the widget closed fine and FALSE (0) for anything else.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 2

=item PERLDOC

 UI::Dialog
 UI::Dialog::Backend
 UI::Dialog::Backend::CDialog
 UI::Dialog::Backend::Nautilus
 UI::Dialog::Backend::Whiptail
 UI::Dialog::Backend::XDialog
 UI::Dialog::Backend::XOSD
 UI::Dialog::Backend::Zenity

=back

=over 2

=item MAN FILES

 zenity(1), Xdialog(1), dialog(1), whiptail(1), osd_cat(1) and nautilus(1)

=back

=head1 BUGS

Please email the author with any bug reports. Include the name of the
module in the subject line.

=head1 AUTHOR

Kevin C. Krinke, E<lt>kevin@krinke.caE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

 Copyright (C) 2004-2016  Kevin C. Krinke <kevin@krinke.ca>

 This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
 modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
 License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
 version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

 This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
 Lesser General Public License for more details.

 You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
 License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
 Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA

=cut
