=head1 NAME

UI::Dialog::GNOME - GNOME GUI meta-class for UI::Dialog.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use UI::Dialog::GNOME;
  my $d = new UI::Dialog::GNOME ( title => 'Default title',
                                  height => 20, width => 65 ,
                                  listheight => 5,
                                  order => [ 'zenity', 'xdialog' ] );

  # Either a Zenity or Xdialog msgbox widget should popup,
  # with a preference for Zenity.
  $d->msgbox( title => 'Welcome!', text => 'Welcome one and all!' );

=head1 ABSTRACT

UI::Dialog::GNOME is simply another meta-class for UI::Dialog. This
class simply has a different order of priority than UI::Dialog and no
console support.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class is simply a nice way to try and ensure a GNOME based widget set.
The editbox() widget is also provided in addition to the standard widgets as
both the XDialog and Zenity backends effectively support it's usage. If you
are still using GDialog and not Zenity (which provides a very nice gdialog
wrapper) the editbox() widget will cause your application to die with a
"missing method editbox()" error.

=head1 EXPORT

=over 2

None

=back

=head1 INHERITS

=over 2

UI::Dialog

=back

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=head2 new( @options )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 my $d = new( title => 'Default Title', backtitle => 'Backtitle',
              width => 65, height => 20, listheight => 5,
              order => [ 'zenity', 'xdialog', 'gdialog' ] );

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

This is the Class Constructor method. It accepts a list of key => value pairs
and uses them as the defaults when interacting with the various widgets.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

A blessed object reference of the UI::Dialog::GNOME class.

=back

=item OPTIONS

The (...)'s after each option indicate the default for the option.

=over 6

=item B<debug = 0,1,2> (0)

=item B<order = [ zenity, xdialog, gdialog ]> (as indicated)

=item B<PATH = [ /bin, /usr/bin, /usr/local/bin, /opt/bin ]> (as indicated)

=item B<backtitle = "backtitle"> ('')

=item B<title = "title"> ('')

=item B<beepbefore = 0,1> (0)

=item B<beepafter = 0,1> (0)

=item B<height = \d+> (20)

=item B<width = \d+> (65)

=item B<listheight = \d+> (5)

=back

=back

=head1 WIDGET METHODS

=head2 editbox( )

=over 4

=item EXAMPLE

=over 6

 $d->editbox( path => '/path/to/a/text/file' );

=back

=item DESCRIPTION

=over 6

Present the end user with an editable textbox containing the contents
of the given text file.

=back

=item RETURNS

=over 6

A SCALAR containing the edited text if the response is OK and FALSE (0)
for anything else.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 2

=item PERLDOC

 UI::Dialog
 UI::Dialog::Backend
 UI::Dialog::Backend::GDialog
 UI::Dialog::Backend::Nautilus
 UI::Dialog::Backend::XDialog
 UI::Dialog::Backend::XOSD
 UI::Dialog::Backend::Zenity

=back

=over 2

=item MAN FILES

 zenity(1), gdialog(1), Xdialog(1), osd_cat(1) and nautilus(1)

=back

=head1 BUGS

Please email the author with any bug reports. Include the name of the
module in the subject line.

=head1 AUTHOR

Kevin C. Krinke, E<lt>kevin@krinke.caE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

 Copyright (C) 2004-2016  Kevin C. Krinke <kevin@krinke.ca>

 This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
 modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
 License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
 version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

 This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
 Lesser General Public License for more details.

 You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
 License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
 Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307 USA

=cut
