
=head1 NAME

Teamspeak::Telnet - Telnet-Interface to administrate
                    Teamspeak-Voice-Server

=head1 CLASS METHODS

=head2 connect()

Connects to the Teamspeak-Server.

=head2 new( host => 'localhost', port => 51234, timeout => 4 )

Creates the object and set a Telnet timeout.

=head2 add_user( user => 'username', pwd => 'password', [ admin => 1 ] )

Adds a user to the server database.
Optionally with Admin rights.

=head2 delete_user ( $player_id )

Removes the user from the user database.

=head2 banplayer( $player_id, $time )

Bans the L<"Teamspeak::Player"> for $time seconds.

=head2 removeclient ( $player_id )

Disconnects the Player from the TS-Server.

=head2 msg ( 'Hello all' )

Sends a Text Message to the selected server.

=head2  msgu ( $database_user_id, 'Text message' )

Sends a Text Message to a User.

=head2 disconnect

Disconnects from the TS-Server.

=head2 my_die( 'error message' )

Calls Teamspeak::_croak to croak.

=head2 logged_in()

Returns 2 if superadmin is logged in.
Returns 1 if a normal user is logged in.
Returns 0 otherwise.

=head2 channels()

Returns a list of channels at the selected server.

=head1 COMMAND OVERVIEW

  banadd              : add ip ban
  banclear            : clear banlist
  bandel              : del ip ban
  banlist             : show banlist
  banplayer           : bans a player
  checkserverok       : checks if server hangs
  ci                  : display channel info
  cl                  : channellist
  dbci                : display db channel info
  dbfp                : db find player
  dbpi                : display db infos about a player
  dbserverlist        : list all servers from db
  dbsuseradd          : adds a superadmin to server
  dbsuserchangepw     : changes password of a superadmin
  dbsuserdel          : deletes a superadmin from server
  dbsuserlist         : display superadmin serverlist
  dbuseradd           : adds a user to server
  dbuserchangeattribs : changes rights of a user
  dbuserchangepw      : changes password of a user
  dbuserdel           : deletes a user from server
  dbuserid            : display dbid from loginname
  dbuserlist          : display server user list
  dccl                : channel client list
  fc                  : finds a channel
  fp                  : finds a player
  gapl                : get average packet loss
  gi                  : global information
  globalset           : set a global variable
  help                : this helpfile
  kick                : kick player
  ki                  : kick idlers
  lc                  : list all open tcpquery connections
  logfind             : search serverlog
  login               : login to server
  logmark             : add a line to serverlog
  log                 : show serverlog
  mptc                : move player to channel
  msgall              : message to all servers
  msg                 : message to server
  msgu                : message to user
  pi                  : display infos about a player
  pl                  : playerlist
  quit                : close connection
  rehash              : reload server settings
  removeclient        : remove client
  sel                 : select
  serveradd           : adds a server
  serverdel           : deletes a server
  serverset           : set a server variable
  serverstart         : start server
  serverstop          : stop server
  si                  : server information
  slogin              : superlogin to server
  sl                  : serverlist
  sppriv              : set user privilege
  ver                 : version

=head2 globalset <attribute> <value>

set global attributes

globalset will change the <attribute> of the teamspeak instance and
set it to <value>.
These are the currently available attributes and their values:

  attribute                               value
  hoster_gfx_url                          text
Note: This is a URL to a image to be displayed to connected
clients, changes to it will only be visible to clients
connecting after you changed it - and the changes will not be
saved to the server.ini, meaning will not be permanent over a
server restart.
  allowedclientnamechars                  text
Note: This restricts what characters you will allow in
nicknames. Users with disallowed characters will get a message
when they connect.
  disallowedclientnamechars               text
Note: This is the little brother of allowedclientnamechars -
characters you set here will not be allowed in nicknames,
clients will be informed what characters they are using that
are not allowed on this server. The default setting for this
will be "()[]{}" to prevent flag faking.

=head3 Example

  globalset hoster_gfx_url http://kerneltrap.org/themes/kt/images/logo.jpg
  >OK

=head2 banplayer <player_id>

=head2 banplayer <player_id> <time>

bans the IP of a currently connected player

This is handy if you dont want to look up the IP of somebody connected
to your server, but just want to ban him. The IP of player corresponding
to the ID is banned. Note: This is ban only, no kick occurs.
banplayer can also be used to place "time bans", that is bans that only
last for a certain amount of time. The option <time> is measured in
minutes.

=head3 Example

  fp dark
  >p_id    p_dbid  c_id    nickname        loginname       ip
  >1741    0       4259    "DarkArchai"    ""      "62.46.89.111"
  >OK
  banplayer 1741
  >OK
  banlist
  >b_id    ip      created mins    by
  >70      62.46.89.111    23-10-2003 01:42:36     0       "SSA_Account9"
  >OK

=head2 banclear (no parameters)

deletes all bans from the banlist

Is used to delete all bans that your banlist contains,
maybe useful if you gave the wrong guy Admin and want to clean-up your
messed up banlist.

=head3 Example

  banlist
  >b_id  ip            created             mins by
  >69    111.222.333.* 23-10-2003 01:31:41 0    "SSA_Account9"
  >OK
  banclear
  >OK
  banlist
  >ERROR, no data avaible

=head2 banlist (no parameters)

lists all bans on this server

This will print out all bans that are currently
enforced on the selected server. It will also display you with lots of
useful information about these bans.
Lets look what the colums mean:
  b_id    the ban ID, usefull for bandel for example
  ip      the IP (with possible wildcards) that is banned
          created the time this ban was created
  mins    if this is a timeban, howlong it was created for, else
          its zero
  by      information about who set the ban.

=head3 Example

  banlist
  >b_id ip             created             mins  by
  >24   217.82.239.253 23-09-2003 00:16:52 54000 "SSA_Account9"
  >OK

=head2 bandel <ban_id>

deletes a ban from the banlist

This will delete the ban specified by ban_id (->banlist) out of the
banlist of the selected server.

=head3 Example

  banlist
  >b_id    ip      created mins    by
  >69      111.222.333.*   23-10-2003 01:31:41     0       "SSA_Account9"
  >70      333.222.111.*   23-10-2003 01:31:57     10      "SSA_Account9"
  >OK
  bandel 70
  >OK
  banlist
  >b_id    ip      created mins    by
  >69      111.222.333.*   23-10-2003 01:31:41     0       "SSA_Account9"
  >OK

=head2 banadd <ip>

=head2 banadd <ip> <time>

adds an IP ban to the banlist

This will put the IP you specified on the banlist of the currently
selected server. Also note that the IP may contain wildcards, just like
known from the client banlist. So, you could use the wildcard "*" to ban
more than only one guy, or to ban whole netmasks/providers.
You can also specify a time after the IP, measured in minutes, which
will make your ban become a "time ban", meaning it will only last for as
long as you specified.

=head3 Example

  banlist
  >ERROR, no data avaible
  banadd 111.222.333.*
  >OK
  banadd 333.222.111.* 10
  >OK
  banlist
  >b_id    ip              created                 mins    by
  >69      111.222.333.*   23-10-2003 01:31:41     0       "SSA_Account9"
  >70      333.222.111.*   23-10-2003 01:31:57     10      "SSA_Account9"
  >OK

=head2 ki <IdleTime> <Target> <Reason>

Kicks idle players off the server

After selecting a virtual server (-> sel) you can use this command
to kick people who are idle for "IdleTime" minutes.
"Target" is a parameter that specifies who gets kicked. Sum up:
  1: unregistered clients
  2: registered clients
  4: kick only if client is on unregistered channel
  8: kick only if client is on registered channel
"Reason" is the reason for the kick that every kicked player will get.
After executing this command the server will return a number of all
players kicked.

=head3 Example

  sel 8767
  > OK
  ki 30 7 don't idle on this server
  > kicked=38
  > OK

=head2 lc (no parameters)

lists current connections with the tcpquery-port

lc will return a lists current connections with the
tcpquery-port, so that you can see other Admins / SuperAdmins who are
logged in with telnet. Notice that only SSAs can execute this command.
  login_name    The user's login-name
  server_id     The server which is currently selected
                (-> dbserverlist).
  ssa           1: user is SuperServerAdmin; 0: user is not
  sa            1: user is ServerAdmin; 0: user is not
  ip            user's ip
  last_command  the last command by this user

=head3 Example

  lc
  > login_name    server_id  ssa  sa  ip                last_command
  > "SatanClaus"  1          1    1   "217.225.70.105"  "lc"
  > OK

=head2 dbuserchangepw <DBUserID> <Password> <Password>

Changes the password of a registered user.

After selecting a virtual server (-> sel) you can use this command
to change a registered user's password. To get the DBUserID use
dbuserlist (-> dbuserlist) or dbuserid (-> dbuserid). The new pass-
word is entered twice to ensure correct writing.

=head3 Example

  dbuserid ralf
  > 1234
  > OK
  dbuserchangepw 1234 mypasswordispassword mypasswordispassword
  > OK

=head2 dbuseradd <LoginName> <Password> <Password> <ServerAdminStatus>

Adds a registered useraccount to your database

After selecting a virtual server (-> sel) you can use this command
to add a registered useraccount to your selected server's database.
To make sure you typed in the password correctly it's entered twice.
The "ServerAdminStatus" is 1 or 0, 1: user is SA, 0: user isn't.

=head3 Example

  dbuseradd Hallo hardtoguesspassword hardtoguesspassword 1
  > OK

=head2 dbuserlist (no parameters)

Gives a list of all registered users

After selecting a virtual server (-> sel) this command
will print a whole list of all registered users, sorted by the DBUserID.
The first column is the DBUserID, the second one is the SAStatus
(0 means user is no SA, -1 means user is SA). The third column tells
you when the user registered with the server, the forth tells you when
the most recent login with this account occured and the fifth and last
one is the LoginName.

=head3 Example

  dbuserlist
  > id      sa     created                 lastonline              name
  > 11      -1     06-03-2003 00:35:58     19-01-2004 20:10:07     "nick"
  > 16      0      13-03-2003 18:44:31     20-01-2004 12:03:57     "name"
  > OK

=head2 dbuserdel

Deletes a registered user out of the database

=head3 dbuserdel <DBUserID>


After you selected a virtual server (-> sel) you can delete registered
users out of your database with this command. To get the DBUserID use
the dbuserlist (-> dbuserlist) or dbuserid (-> dbuserid) command.

=head3 Example

  dbuserid Fearless
  > 2121
  > OK
  dbuserdel 2121
  > OK

=head2 dbuserid

Prints out the DBUserID belonging to the specified name.

=head3 dbuserid <LoginName>


After selecting a virtual server (-> sel) this command allows you to
find the DBUserID which belongs to a certain registered user's
LoginName. The command only will find a DBUserID if the LoginName is
entered completely, correctly and case-sensitive.

=head3 Example

  dbuserid Satan
  > ERROR, no data avaible
  dbuserid satanclaus
  > ERROR, no data avaible
  dbuserid SatanClaus
  > 2155
  > OK

=head2 dbuserchangeattribs

Changes the SA-Status of a registered user

=head3 dbuserchangeattribs <DBUserID> <ServerAdminStatus>


After selecting a virtual server (-> sel) you can use this command to
change the ServerAdminStatus of a registered user. To get the
DBUserID use dbuserlist (-> dbuserlist) or dbuserid (-> dbuserid).
The ServerAdminStatus can be 1 or 0, 1: user is SA, 0: user isn't.

=head3 Example

  dbuserid SatanClaus
  > 1234
  > OK
  dbuserchangeattribs 1234 1
  > OK

=head2 dbsuseradd

Adds a SuperAdmin to your server instance

=head3 dbsuseradd <LoginName> <Password> <Password>


You can use the dbsuseradd command to add a new SuperAdmin to your
server instance. To make sure you typed in the password correctly
it's entered twice.

=head3 Example

  dbsuserlist
  > id      created name
  > 1864    09-07-2003 23:38:38     "SantaClaus"
  > OK
  dbsuseradd Hallo veryhardtoguesspassword veryhardtoguesspassword
  > OK
  dbsuserlist
  > id      created name
  > 1864    09-07-2003 23:38:38     "SantaClaus"
  > 31337   17-07-2003 03:03:03     "Hallo"
  > OK

=head2 dbsuserdel

Deletes a SuperAdmin

=head3 dbsuserdel <DBSUserID>


With this command you can delete SuperAdmin accounts.
To get the DBSUserID use the dbsuserlist (-> dbsuserlist) command.

=head3 Example

  dbsuserlist
  > id      created name
  > 1869    09-07-2003 23:38:38     "SantaClaus"
  > 1337    09-07-2003 23:40:11     "DeleteMe"
  > OK
  dbsuserdel 1337
  > OK
  dbsuserlist
  > id      created name
  > 1869    09-07-2003 23:38:38     "SantaClaus"
  > OK

=head2 dbsuserchangepw

Changes the password of a SuperAdmin.

=head3 dbsuserchangepw <DBSUserID> <Password> <Password>


You can use this command to change a SuperAdmin's password. To get
the DBSUserID use dbsuserlist (-> dbsuserlist). The new password is
entered twice to ensure correct writing.

=head3 Example

  dbsuserlist
  > id      created name
  > 1864    09-07-2003 23:38:38     "SantaClaus"
  > 1878    09-07-2003 23:40:11     "SA_Account99"
  > OK
  dbsuserchangepw 1864 mypasswordisnotpassword mypasswordisnotpassword
  > OK

=head2 rehash

reloads the database (without restarting the server)

This will reload the entries in the database - possibly useful if you
have written a tool that manipulates the server database, then it might
be sensible to rehash the database in order for the server to *notice*
the changes.

=head3 Example

  rehash
  > OK

=head2 checkserverok (no parameters)

check if a server process is still functional

checkserverok will return "OK" if the server is running
fine, else "error" if this server isnt working properly anymore, has
*hung*.

=head3 Example

  sel 8767
  >OK
  checkserverok
  >OK

=head2 dbserverlist (no parameters)

prints all virtual servers

dbserverlist will print a list of all virtual servers
running on this server instance. It will print their database ID, the
port they run on, their name and finaly if they are running or not.

=head3 Example

  dbserverlist
  >id      udpport name                     status
  >1       8767    "TeamSpeak Public  -1-"  1
  >2       10050   "TeamSpeak Public  -2-"  1
  >3       10060   "TeamSpeak Public  -3-"  1
  >OK

=head2 serveradd <port>

adds a new virtual server

serveradd will add a new virtual server to run on <port>. You can
configure it either with tcpquery (-> serverset), or via webadmin interface.

=head3 Example

  serveradd 8768
  >OK
  dbserverlist
  >id      udpport name
  >1       8767    "TeamSpeak Public  -1-"
  >2       8768    "TeamSpeak Server"
  >OK

=head2 serverdel

delete a virtual server

=head3 serverdel <server_database_ID>


serverdel will delete the virtual server specified by
<server_database_ID>.

=head3 Example

  dbserverlist
  >id      udpport name
  >1       8767    "TeamSpeak Public  -1-"
  >2       8768    "TeamSpeak Server"
  >OK
  serverdel 2
  >OK
  dbserverlist
  >id      udpport name
  >1       8767    "TeamSpeak Public  -1-"
  >OK

=head2 serverstart

start up a virtual server

=head3 serverstart <server_database_id>


serverstart will start the, previously stopped (-> dbserverstop) virtual
server specified by <server_database_id>. To obtain a such an ID, list
the servers in the database (-> dbserverlist).

=head3 Example

  dbserverlist
  >id      udpport name
  >1       8767    "TeamSpeak Public  -1-"
  sel 8767
  >OK
  serverstop
  >OK
  serverstart 1
  >OK

=head2 serverstop (no parameters)

stop a virtual server

serverstop will stop the selected virtual server
(-> sel). To be able to use the server again, you have to start it
(-> serverstart).

=head3 Example

  dbserverlist
  >id      udpport name
  >1       8767    "TeamSpeak Public  -1-"
  sel 8767
  >OK
  serverstop
  >OK
  serverstart 1
  >OK

=head2 serverset <attribute> <value>

set attributes of virtual servers

serverset will change the <attribute> of the selected virtual server
(-> sel) to <value>. There are various attributes avaliable to be set,
among them are possibilities to modify clanserver vs publicserver, allow
or disallow different voice codecs, set maximum users, server password,
server name, welcome message and the post and link url, which are both
needed for webpost.
Now lets have a look at the names of the attibutes, and their possible
values:

  attribute                               value
  server_clan_server                      0/1
  server_allow_codec_windowscelp52        0/1
  server_allow_codec_gsm164               0/1
  server_allow_codec_gsm148               0/1
  server_allow_codec_celp63               0/1
  server_allow_codec_celp51               0/1
  server_allow_codec_speex2150            0/1
  server_allow_codec_speex3950            0/1
  server_allow_codec_speex5950            0/1
  server_allow_codec_speex8000            0/1
  server_allow_codec_speex11000           0/1
  server_allow_codec_speex15000           0/1
  server_allow_codec_speex18200           0/1
  server_allow_codec_speex24600           0/1
  server_maxusers                         0-32000
  server_password                         text
  server_name                             text
  server_welcomemessage                   text
  server_webpost_posturl                  text
  server_webpost_linkurl                  text

=head3 Example

  serveradd 12123
  >OK
  dbserverlist
  >id      udpport name
  >1       8767    "TeamSpeak Public  -1-"
  >2       12123   "TeamSpeak Server"
  >OK
  sel 12123
  >OK
  serverset server_name Quoark Clan United
  >OK
  dbserverlist
  >id      udpport name
  >1       8767    "TeamSpeak Public  -1-"
  >2       12123   "Quoark Clan United"
  >OK

=head2 dccl

Debug Client Channel List

After you selected a virtual Server (-> sel), the dccl command prints
out a list of all clients, sorted by the channels they are in. The first
column displays the Channel ID, the second the Channel Name, the third
the Player ID and the fourth the Player Name. If a Channel is empty, the
Player ID will be -1.

=head3 Example

  dccl
  > c_id    c_name  p_id    p_name
  > 1       "Echo / Spam Channel"   -1
  > 2       "Default Channel"       -1
  > 3       "Talk Channel, Choose language" -1
  > 4       "Admins-Island" 5956    "pwk.linuxfan"
  > 4       "Admins-Island" 5975    "SatanClaus"
  > 5       "Public Talk -1-"       -1
  > 6       "Public Talk -2-"       -1
  > 7       "Public Talk -3-"       -1
  [...]

=head2 logmark

write a remark into the logfile

=head3 logmark <string>


This is used to set a remark in the serverlog. It is useful if you
want to find a specific place in the log file later. For example if
you notice a problem and want to look at the log closer some time to
find out what was up.

=head3 Example

  logmark jim_SA?
  >OK
  logfind remark
  >01-08-03 08:48:03,ALL,Info,Info,       *remark by SSA_Account9* jim_SA?
  >OK

=head2 logfind <string>

finds lines in the serverlog

Displays all the lines in the serverlog that contain <string>, making it
easy to find things in the log if you know what you are looking for.

=head3 Example

  logfind remark
  >01-08-03 08:30:24,ALL,Info,Info,        *remark by SSA_Account9* testing
  >OK

=head2 log <line_amount>

display last lines from the serverlog

The log command will print the last 30 lines of server log, if invoked
without a parameter, else it will print as many lines as you specify,
always starting from the end of the log.

=head3 Example

  log 120
  [...]
  our log is too sensitive for your eyes :P, try yourself

=head2 gapl <server_port>

Gets the average packet loss

gapl will display the average packet loss of the virtual server that is
either currently selected (-> sel), or that is specified in <serverport>.
This value is a good indication to see if something is going wrong on
the server side (e.g. the bandwidth the server has doesnt suffice).
On a good server with mostly users from close-by (e.g. European users
on an European server) the value should be under 1%. If it rises to 5%
or more you will have major problems using this server to talk.

=head3 Example

  gapl
  >average_packet_loss=0.81%
  >OK

=head2 mptc <channelID> <playerID>

move a player to a channel

Moves the user with the <playerID> to the channel specified in
<channelID>. Works like the "drag & drop" functionality of the client,
so it basicly overrules passwords, userlimits and sticky flags.

=head3 Example

  fp claus
  >p_id    c_id    nickname        loginname
  >5975    4       "SatanClaus"    "SatanClaus"
  >OK
  fc german
  >c_id    c_name
  >10      German Talk
  >OK
  mptc 10 5975
  >OK

=head2 removeclient <playerID>

disconnect a user from the server

this will remove a client from the server without the noise of a kick
- especially usefull for scripting I guess.

=head3 Example

  fp pwk
  >p_id    p_dbid  c_id    nickname        loginname       ip
  >9807    14582   15      "pwk.linuxfan"  "SA_Account9"   "80.132.25.140"
  >OK
  removeclient 9807
  >OK

=head2 kick <playerID>

kick a player of the server

kick will kick the player with the playerID of the server.

=head3 Example

  fp 7!r
  >p_id    c_id    nickname        loginname
  >17      10      "$7!RB"         "STiRB"
  >OK
  kick 17
  >OK

=head2 sppriv <playerID> <property> <value>

sets player privileges

sppriv will set the property of a player to a new value. The properties
that are avaliable are:
  property                        possible value
  privilege_serveradmin           1/0
  privilege_canregister           1/0
  privilege_channelsticky         1/0

channelsticky means this user is not allowed to switch channels
anymore. He is *glued* to the channel he is in - note that this doesnt
work on server admins.

=head3 Example

  fp wouter
  >p_id    c_id    nickname        loginname
  >631     10      "[TS]Wouter"    "wouter"
  >OK
  sppriv 631 privilege_serveradmin 0
  >OK
  sppriv 631 privilege_channelsticky 1
  >OK

=head2 dbpi <databaseID>

print information about a player in the database

This command is useful to find out information about users that are
currently not connected to your server, but that have a registered
account. As pi (->pi), it will list some information about the player
specified by the database ID (-> pi) (-> fp) (-> dbuserid). The command will
also display the last time the account was used, and the time it was made.
Note: This is a good way of finding out what rights a player has in the
channels.

=head3 Example

  dbuserid crashlady
  >8233
  >OK
  dbpi 8233
  >p_dbid  loginname       sa      created                 lastonline
  >8233    crashlady       0       13-09-2003 00:07:34     19-01-2004 20:14:14
  >c_dbid  c_dbpid c_name          ca      ao      av
  >292     106     "German Talk"   0       1       0
  >OK

=head2 pi <playerID>

Gives info about a player

pi will list some information about the player with the <playerID>. It
contains the ID of the channel he is in, if he is SA, and if he is
sticky (-> sppriv). It also lists the channel-specific rights this
player has, and in which channels.

=head3 Example

  fp dan
  >p_id    p_dbid  c_id    nickname        loginname       ip
  >14902   3619    14      "dante696"      "dante696"      "12.13.54.58"
  >14970   0       2589    "Fistdantiluss" ""              "55.144.33.22"
  >OK
  pi 14902
  >p_id    p_dbid  c_id    nickname        loginname  sa st ip
  >14902   3619    14      "dante696"      "dante696" 0  0  "12.13.54.58"
  >
  >c_id    name            ca      o       ao      v       av
  >11      "German Talk"   1       0       0       0       0
  >12      "English Talk"  1       0       0       0       0
  >13      "Dutch Talk"    0       1       1       0       0
  >14      "French Talk"   0       1       1       0       0
  >15      "Spanish Talk"  0       1       1       0       0
  >16      "Turkish Talk"  0       1       1       0       0
  >OK

Here we can see: Dante is currently in channel with ID 10 (German
Talk), has no Server Admin, and isnt sticky. His channel
rights are: CA in German Talk and English Talk, Auto-Ops and Ops in the
other talk channels.

=head2 dbfp <login_substring>

finds a player in the database

This command will find all the login-accounts that contain the specified
string. It will also display their database ID, and if they have SA or
not. Useful if you dont know the exact name, else see dbuserid (-> dbuserid).
Additionaly it will display when this account was created, and what time it
was last used to login.

=head3 Example

  dbfp subi
  >p_dbid  loginname  sa   created              lastonline
  >23322   "Subi"     0    19-01-2004 23:15:30  20-01-2004 00:02:54
  >OK

=head2 fp <name_substring>

finds a player based on a string

fp will find all players that have nicks that have <name_substring> in
their nick-name or in their login-name.
  p_id    is the playerID, needed for most player manipulations
  p_dbid  is the databaseID, zero for unregistered players
  c_id    is the channelID in which this user is currently in.
  ip      is the IP address of the user, good for banning

=head3 Example

  fp unky
  >p_id  p_dbid  c_id    nickname        loginname       ip
  >9114  0       1979    "FunkyFreak"    ""              "80.184.142.72"
  >9432  0       1848    "fresh&funky"   ""              "217.82.132.218"
  >OK

=head2 dbci <channel_database_ID>

lists database information about a channel

This command is used to print the database information about a channel.
This includes the rights that are saved in the database, but arent
currently used (e.g. rights of users that arent in the channel). Its a
useful tool to check on how the rights in your channels are distributed
currently. The information is similar to ci, just look there if you want
to know what the weird shortcuts mean :P.

=head3 Example

  fc default
  >c_id    c_dbid  c_name
  >2       87      Default Channel
  >OK
  dbci 87
  [some  information that is too long for the 80 char lines :) ]
  >p_dbid  loginname       ca      ao      av
  >190     ProVidencE      1       0       0
  >203     toxic   1       0       0
  >1599    MapE    1       0       0
  >OK

=head2 ci <channelID>

display informations about a channel

ci will display information on the channel specified with <channelID>.
Lets have a look at its output:
  c_id    is the channel ID
  c_pid   if this channel is a subchannel, this is the ID of the parent
  channel - else its -1
  c_dbid  this is the database ID, zero for unregistered channels
  c_name  the name of the channel
  c_fU    is this channel unregistered ? 0=false 1=true
  c_fM    is this channel moderated ? (0/1)
  c_fP    is this channel passworded ? (0/1)
  c_fH    is the channel a subchannel ? (0/1)
  c_fD    is this channel the default channel ? (0/1)
  c_codec is the channel codec, from this table:
  0       CELP 5.2
  1       CELP 6.3
  2       GSM 14.8
  3       GSM 16.4
  4       Windows CELP 5.2
  5       Speex 3.4
  6       Speex 5.2
  7       Speex 7.2
  8       Speex 9.3
  9       Speex 12.3
  10      Speex 16.3
  11      Speex 19.5
  12      Speex 25.9
  c_order         the value that was entered as channel "order", default 3200
  c_maxusers      maximum users allowed to this channel
  c_created       time and date of channel creation
  c_topic         the channel topic
  c_description   the channel description

Following this output is the list of all players currently in the
channel, with their channel rights. Most of the flags are obviouse,
except:
  st      is 1 if the user is sticky (-> sppriv)

=head3 Example

  No example, as the output is too long for these 80 character lines :o)

=head2 fc <name_substring>

finds a channel based on a string

fc will find all channels on the selected virtual server (->sel), that
have names containing <name_substring>.
  c_id    is the channelID of this channel
  c_dbid  the ID this channel has in the database, only > 0 for registered
          channels
  c_name  is the name of the channel

=head3 Example

  fc default
  >c_id    c_dbid  c_name
  >2       87      Default Channel
  >OK

=head2 slogin <username> <password>

login as superadmin

slogin will log into your superadmin account. This gives you all
permissions possible - be careful with your commands :).

=head3 Example

  slogin superadmin g7bni
  >OK

=head2 login <username> <password>

login with your account data

login will log a regular TS account. What you will be able to do depends
on the permission settings... Logging in is necessary for all advanced
commands. If you want to log in as superadmin (-> slogin).

=head3 Example

  login SA_Account9 3rnie&b3rt

=head2 msgall <text>

send a text to every virtual server

Sends a textmessage to all users on this server instance (no matter on
which virtual server they are are hanging out). Like with all msg
commands (->msg, ->msgu), it is possible to strip the "telnet.loginname"
thats usualy displayed infront of all messages you send via telnet by
putting a "@" infront of your message.

=head3 Example

  msgall Hello Universe :)
  >OK

=head2 msgu <user_id> <some text here>

send a textmessage to a user

This is used to send a textmessage to a certain user that is currently
connected to your server. Like with all msg commands (->msg, ->msgall),
it is possible to strip the "telnet.loginname" thats usualy displayed
infront of all messages you send via telnet by putting a "@" infront of
your message.

=head3 Example

  fp wotan
  >p_id    p_dbid  c_id    nickname        loginname       ip
  >8540    3954    15      "wotan" "wodan" "213.103.139.105"
  >OK
  msgu 8540 @Now you are famous, you are in the tcpquery docs :)
  >OK

=head2 msg <text>

Send a message to a virtual server

Sends the text as a text message to all users connected to the
currently selected (-> sel) server instance. Like with all msg commands
(->msgall, ->msgu), it is possible to strip the "telnet.loginname" thats
usualy displayed infront of all messages you send via telnet by putting
a "@" infront of your message.

=head3 Example

  sel 8767
  >OK
  msg Hello World
  >OK

=head2 si (no parameters)

gives information about a virtual server

si will list lots of information about the currently
selected virtual server (-> sel). Most of the output is
self-explanatory, lets have a look at the less intuitve ones:

  total_bwoutlastmin      is the amount of bytes sent in the last minute
  total_bwoutlastsec      is the amount of bytes sent in the last second
  total_bwinlastmin       is the amount of bytes recieved in the last min
  total_bwinlastsec       is the amount of bytes recieved in the last min
  isp_ispname             the name of the provider of this service
  isp_linkurl             the URL of the provider, linked in the banner
                          on the client too...
  isp_adminemail          the email of the server admin
  isp_countrynumber       A number that specifies which country the
                          server is in - dunno how to resolve
                          number->country, if anybody does - tell me :o).

=head3 Example

  si
  >server_id=1
  >server_name=TeamSpeak Public  -1-
  >server_platform=Linux
  >server_welcomemessage=We want to meet @ irc. Please idle in #TeamSpeak on quakenet
  [...]

=head2 sel <serverport>

select a virtual server

Chooses the server specified with <serverport>, important for many
following commands, that manipulate the selected server.

=head3 Example

  sel 8767
  >OK

=head2 gi (no parameters)

gives general info about the server

gi will list lots of general (read: non virtual server
specific) information. Most of the output is self-explanatory, lets
have a look at the less intuitve ones:
  total_bwoutlastmin      is the amount of bytes sent in the last minute
  total_bwoutlastsec      is the amount of bytes sent in the last second
  total_bwinlastmin       is the amount of bytes recieved in the last min
  total_bwinlastsec       is the amount of bytes recieved in the last min
  isp_ispname             the name of the provider of this service
  isp_linkurl             the URL of the provider, linked in the banner
                          on the client too...
  isp_adminemail          the email of the server admin
  isp_countrynumber       A number that specifies which country the
                          server is in - dunno how to resolve
                          number->country, if anybody does - tell me :o).

=head3 Example

  gi
  >total_server_uptime=17:48:19
  >total_server_version=2.0.19.43
  >total_server_platform=Linux
  >total_servers=16
  >total_users_online=579
  >total_users_maximal=37957
  [...]

=head2 ver (no parameters)

print the version

ver will output the exact server version string, tell
you the operating system and also if this is a commercial build or not.

=head3 Example

  ver
  >2.0.19.50 Linux Commercial
  >OK

=head2 cl (no parameters)

lists the channels on a virtual server

cl will list all channels that are currently set up
on the virtual server. It will also display some info on the channels
it list, lets have a look at the output.
  id        is the channel ID, used for channel manipulating commands
  codec     is the Codec the channel uses, from this table:
            0       CELP 5.2
            1       CELP 6.3
            2       GSM 14.8
            3       GSM 16.4
            4       Windows CELP 5.2
            5       Speex 3.4
            6       Speex 5.2
            7       Speex 7.2
            8       Speex 9.3
            9       Speex 12.3
            10      Speex 16.3
            11      Speex 19.5
            12      Speex 25.9
  parent    if this channel is a subchannel, parent will be the
            channel ID of the parent channel.
  order     This displays the order value, determining the way to
            order channels
  maxusers  The maximum amound of users that may join the channels
  name      the name of the channels
  flags     the channel flags, add up from this table:
            Unregistered:   1
            Moderated:      2
            Password:       4
            Hierarchical:   8
            Default:        16
  password  has this channel got a password set ? 1=true, 0=false
  topic     the channel topic

=head3 Example

  Well, just try it, the output is just too long for this help file :P.

=head2 pl (no parameters)

lists the players on a virtual server

pl will return a lists of all users connected
to the virtual server currently selected (-> sel).
It also gives lots of interesting data on the players it lists.
Lets have a look at the output format:
  p_id    is the player ID, needed for many other commands to manipulate
  a player.
  c_id    is the channel ID of the channel the player is currently in.
  ps      is the amount of packets this user has sent to the server
  bs      is the amount of bytes this user has sent to the server
  pr      is the amount of packets this user has recieved from the
  server
  br      is the amount of bytes this user has recieved from the server
  pl      is the amount of lost packets the user-server connection
  produced
  ping    is the latency time from user to server, in milliseconds
  logintime       is the time in seconds since this user connected to
  the server
  idletime        is the time in seconds since the last user interaction
  with the server
  cprivs  a value determining the current channel privileges, add up
  until you get the value from this table:
  CA:     1
  O:      2
  V:      4
  AO:     8
  AV:     16
  pprivs  a value determining the current player privileges, add up until
  you get the value from this table:
  SA:                     1
  Allow_Registration:     2
  Registered:             4
  Internal Use:           8
  Stickey:                16
  pflags  a value determining the current player flags, add up until you
  get the value from this table:
  Channel Commander:      1
  Voice Request:          2
  Doesnt Accept Whispers: 4
  Away:                   8
  Microphone Muted:       16
  Sound Muted:            32
  Recording:              64
  ip      is the IP of this player
  nick    is the nickname the player has selected
  loginname       is the name of the account the user has logged in with

=head3 Example

  Well, no example as the output is much to long for one of these 80
  character lines :o)

=head2 sl (no parameters)

lists all servers

sl will return a list of ports on which there
are virtual server instances running.

=head3 Example

  sl
  >8767
  >OK

=head2 help <command>

Displays general or specific help

Without an argument help will give a list of available commands, each
with a short description.
If you specify a command as argument, help will display specific
information on the command.

=head3 Example

  help
  command overview:
  help                : this helpfile
  sl                  : serverlist
  pl                  : playerlist
  cl                  : channellist
  ver                 : version
  gi                  : global information
  [...]

=head1 INSTALLATION

It's all pure Perl, so just put the .pm file in its appropriate
local Perl subdirectory.

=head1 AUTHOR

Martin von Oertzen (maletin@cpan.org)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2005-2007, Martin von Oertzen. All Rights Reserved.
This module is free software. It may be used, redistributed
and/or modified under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AVAILABILITY

=over

=item Teamspeak::Telnet has been uploaded to the CPAN.

=item $Id: Telnet.pod 35 2007-10-21 22:23:54Z maletin $

=item $URL: http://svn.berlios.de/svnroot/repos/cpan-teamspeak/cpan/trunk/lib/Teamspeak/Telnet.pod $

=back

=cut

