=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Time::TZif::POSIX - POSIX TZ string parser with configurable local time resolution

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Time::TZif::POSIX;

    my $tz = Time::TZif::POSIX->new(
      tz_string      => 'EST5EDT,M3.2.0,M11.1.0',
      gap_policy     => 'later',      # default policy for gaps
      overlap_policy => 'earlier',    # default policy for overlaps
    );

    # UTC to offset (always unambiguous)
    my $offset = $tz->offset_for_utc($epoch);

    # Local time to offset (uses constructor defaults)
    my $offset = $tz->offset_for_local($epoch);

    # Local time to offset (override per call)
    my $offset = $tz->offset_for_local($epoch, gap_policy => 'reject');

    # Full type info: ($offset, $is_dst, $abbreviation)
    my ($off, $dst, $abbr) = $tz->type_info_for_utc($epoch);
    my ($off, $dst, $abbr) = $tz->type_info_for_local($epoch, gap_policy => 'std');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Note:> This module is experimental and may change without prior notice.

C<Time::TZif::POSIX> parses POSIX TZ strings as defined in
IEEE Std 1003.1 (POSIX.1) and RFC 8536 E<sect>3.3.1, and provides
the same API as L<Time::TZif> for resolving UTC and local times to
UTC offsets.

A POSIX TZ string encodes timezone rules algorithmically, without
storing individual transition timestamps.  In TZif v2/v3 files, a
POSIX TZ string appears as a footer and describes the rules that apply
after the last stored transition.  This module implements those rules
as a standalone parser.

=head2 POSIX TZ String Format

The general form is:

    std offset [dst [offset] , start [/time] , end [/time]]

=over 4

=item B<std>, B<dst>

Timezone designation (abbreviation). Unquoted names consist of three
or more ASCII letters (e.g., C<EST>). Quoted names are enclosed in
angle brackets and may include letters, digits, C<+>, and C<->
(e.g., C<E<lt>+05E<gt>>).  A minimum of three characters is required
inside the brackets.

=item B<offset>

UTC offset in the form C<[+-]hh[:mm[:ss]]>. Hours E<lt>= 24,
minutes E<lt>= 59, seconds E<lt>= 59, total E<lt>= E<plusmn>86400.
Note the B<POSIX sign convention>: a positive offset indicates a zone
I<west> of Greenwich (the sign is inverted internally to yield the
conventional UTC offset).

If the DST offset is omitted, it defaults to one hour ahead of
standard time.

=item B<start>, B<end>

Transition rules specifying when DST begins (I<start>) and ends
(I<end>). Three rule forms are supported:

=over 4

=item C<Mm.w.d>

The I<d>-th day of week (0=Sunday .. 6=Saturday) of the I<w>-th week
of month I<m> (1-12). I<w>=5 means the last occurrence of that day in
the month.

=item C<Jn>

Julian day I<n> (1-365). February 29 is B<never> counted, so day 60
is always March 1.

=item C<n>

Zero-based day of year (0-365). February 29 B<is> counted in leap
years.

=back

=item B<time>

The wall-clock time at which the transition occurs, in the form
C<[+-]hh[:mm[:ss]]>.  Defaults to C<02:00:00> if omitted.
Hours may range up to 167 (RFC 8536 E<sect>3.3.1 extension).

=back

=head2 Examples

    EST5EDT,M3.2.0,M11.1.0            US Eastern
    CET-1CEST,M3.5.0/2,M10.5.0/3      Central European
    <+05>-5                           Fixed UTC+5 (no DST)
    NZST-12NZDT,M9.5.0,M4.1.0/3       New Zealand

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=head2 new

    my $tz = Time::TZif::POSIX->new(
      tz_string      => $string,
      gap_policy     => 'reject',    # optional, default: 'reject'
      overlap_policy => 'reject',    # optional, default: 'reject'
    );

Creates a new C<Time::TZif::POSIX> object by parsing the given POSIX
TZ string.

=over 4

=item C<tz_string> (required)

A POSIX TZ string (e.g., C<'EST5EDT,M3.2.0,M11.1.0'>).

=item C<gap_policy> (optional, default: C<'reject'>)

Default policy for resolving non-existing local times (during
spring-forward gaps). See L<Time::TZif/POLICIES>. Can be overridden
per call in C<offset_for_local> and C<type_info_for_local>.

=item C<overlap_policy> (optional, default: C<'reject'>)

Default policy for resolving ambiguous local times (during fall-back
overlaps). See L<Time::TZif/POLICIES>. Can be overridden per call in
C<offset_for_local> and C<type_info_for_local>.

=back

Croaks if the string cannot be parsed or contains out-of-range values.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 offset_for_utc

    my $offset = $tz->offset_for_utc($time);

Returns the UTC offset in seconds for the given UTC epoch time.  This
is always unambiguous.

=head2 offset_for_local

    my $offset = $tz->offset_for_local($time);
    my $offset = $tz->offset_for_local($time, %opts);

Returns the UTC offset in seconds for the given local epoch time (i.e.,
the epoch value obtained by treating the wall-clock time as if it were
UTC).

=head3 Options

=over 4

=item C<gap_policy> (default: constructor value)

Policy for non-existing local times. See L<Time::TZif/POLICIES>.

=item C<overlap_policy> (default: constructor value)

Policy for ambiguous local times. See L<Time::TZif/POLICIES>.

=back

=head2 type_info_for_utc

    my ($offset, $is_dst, $abbreviation) = $tz->type_info_for_utc($time);

Returns the full type information for the given UTC epoch time:

=over 4

=item C<$offset> - UTC offset in seconds

=item C<$is_dst> - 1 if daylight saving time, 0 otherwise

=item C<$abbreviation> - timezone abbreviation (e.g., C<"EST">, C<"EDT">)

=back

=head2 type_info_for_local

    my ($offset, $is_dst, $abbreviation) = $tz->type_info_for_local($time, %opts);

Returns the full type information for the given local epoch time.
Accepts the same C<gap_policy> and C<overlap_policy> options as
C<offset_for_local>.

=head2 tz_string

    my $string = $tz->tz_string;

Returns the POSIX TZ string used to construct the object.

=head2 gap_policy

    my $policy = $tz->gap_policy;

Returns the default gap policy set in the constructor.

=head2 overlap_policy

    my $policy = $tz->overlap_policy;

Returns the default overlap policy set in the constructor.

=head1 CROSS-YEAR TRANSITIONS

When a transition rule combined with its time and offset causes the
computed UTC epoch to fall in an adjacent year (e.g., a late December
rule with a large positive time, or a January rule with a negative
time), the module correctly handles this by computing transitions for
the target year and both adjacent years, sorting them by UTC epoch,
and walking the full list.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

All error messages are thrown as exceptions via C<Carp::croak>.

=head2 Unable to parse POSIX TZ string

=over 4

=item C<Unable to parse POSIX TZ string: '%s'>

The string does not match the expected POSIX TZ format.

=item C<Unable to parse POSIX TZ string: invalid offset '%s'>

An offset component could not be parsed.

=item C<Unable to parse POSIX TZ string: offset time is out of range: %s>

The offset exceeds the allowed range (hours E<lt>= 24, minutes E<lt>= 59,
seconds E<lt>= 59).

=item C<Unable to parse POSIX TZ string: standard offset out of range: %d>

The computed standard offset exceeds E<plusmn>86400 seconds.

=item C<Unable to parse POSIX TZ string: daylight offset out of range: %d>

The computed daylight offset exceeds E<plusmn>86400 seconds.

=item C<Unable to parse POSIX TZ string: invalid rule time '%s'>

A transition rule time could not be parsed.

=item C<Unable to parse POSIX TZ string: rule time is out of range: %s>

The rule time exceeds the allowed range (hours E<lt>= 167, minutes E<lt>= 59, 
seconds E<lt>= 59).

=item C<Unable to parse POSIX TZ string: invalid rule '%s'>

A transition date rule could not be parsed.

=item C<Unable to parse POSIX TZ string: rule month out of range [1, 12]: %d>

The month in an C<Mm.w.d> rule is outside the valid range.

=item C<Unable to parse POSIX TZ string: Julian day out of range [1, 365]: %d>

The day in a C<Jn> rule is outside the valid range.

=item C<Unable to parse POSIX TZ string: zero-based day out of range [0, 365]: %d>

The day in an C<n> rule is outside the valid range.

=back

=head2 Unable to resolve local time

=over 4

=item C<Unable to resolve local time: non-existing time (gap)>

The given local time falls within a gap created by a spring-forward
transition and the C<gap_policy> is set to C<'reject'>.

=item C<Unable to resolve local time: ambiguous time (overlap)>

The given local time falls within an overlap created by a fall-back
transition and the C<overlap_policy> is set to C<'reject'>.

=back

=head2 Usage errors

=over 4

=item C<Usage: %s>

A method was called with an incorrect number of arguments.

=item C<Parameter 'tz_string' is required>

The C<new> constructor was called without the required C<tz_string>
parameter.

=item C<Invalid policy value for the parameter '%s'>

The value given for C<gap_policy> or C<overlap_policy> is not one of
the recognised policies (C<earlier>, C<later>, C<std>, C<dst>,
C<reject>). See L<Time::TZif/POLICIES>.

=item C<Unrecognised named parameter: '%s'>

An unrecognised named parameter was given.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Time::TZif> - TZif binary timezone file parser

L<IEEE Std 1003.1|https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9799919799/basedefs/V1_chap08.html> -
POSIX.1 environment variables (TZ specification)

L<RFC 8536|https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8536> - The Time
Zone Information Format (TZif)

=head1 AUTHOR

Christian Hansen

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2026 by Christian Hansen

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
