=pod

=head1 NAME

Bot::Infobot - a Bot::BasicBot::Pluggable based replacement for the venerable infobot


=head1 USAGE

First write a config file (see below for details of the format) making sure that
you have a C<[ Store ]> section. Then run

    % infobot-import <dsn> <username> <password>

and sit back and watch the show. This can take anything from 5 minutes to 6 hours
depending on size of the brain and the store method (Storable is fastest, then 
then the DBM::Deep based Deep driver and then DBI).

Finally just type 

    % infobot 

in the same directory and everything will just work. Probably.


=head1 CONFIG 

The C<infobot> and C<Bot::Infobot::Config> documentation have more information but, 
essentially you have a main namespace and then sub namespaces for the different plugins
including one special C<Store> namespace for configuring the store.

You can get a list of config values for the bot on the C<infobot> manpage but the 
minimum config you should have to get yourself up and running are something like

    
    nick     = mybotsnick
    server   = irc.perl.org
    channels = #bottest

    [ Store ]
    type     = Storable

 
The format is C<.ini> style and currently there's no way to pass in an alternative
config file but there probably should be.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

After hacking in a couple of features to dipsy, #london.pm's slightly loopy
infobot I felt, well, dirty. The infobt code is horrible to the point of 
profane depravity. The next wednesday, burdened with a monster hangover and
a thorny problem percolating through my brain I hacked up a quick 
C<Bot::BasicBot::Pluggable> framework as a replacement and played with porting
the various plugins I could find over to this new, shiny way of doing anythings.

A few sprinkled hours later and I'd done pretty much everything and began to 
write a brain slurper to import the distilled wisdom of 5 odd years of 
ramblings.

Along the way there was various bits of Yak Shaving. Some of the results of that 
are up on CPAN.

The original patches that inspired this are here - http://thegestalt.org/simon/perl/

=head1 VERSION CONTROL

The master repository for this code is at

https://github.com/simonwistow/Bot-Infobot

=head1 AUTHOR

Simon Wistow <simon@thegestalt.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2005, Simon Wistow

Distributed under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Bot:::BasicBot::Pluggable>, L<Bot::Infobot::Config>, L<infobot>, L<infobot-import>, http://www.infobot.org

=cut
