=head1 NAME

Catalyst::Manual::Deployment::IIS::FastCGI - Deploying Catalyst with Microsoft IIS

=head1 Microsoft IIS

Probably the best way to deploy a Catalyst application on IIS is by using
IIS as a front end proxy.  However if you positively must use FastCGI (say
due to internal IT policies) then this manual shows you how.

It is possible to run Catalyst under IIS with FastCGI, but only on IIS
6.0 (Microsoft Windows 2003), IIS 7.0 (Microsoft Windows 2008 and
Vista), and (hopefully) its successors.

FastCGI is sometimes said to be supported on IIS 5.1 (Windows XP), but
some features (specifically, wildcard mappings) are not supported. This
prevents Catalyst applications from running on the server.

Let us assume that our server has the following layout:

    d:\WWW\WebApp\                   path to our Catalyst application
    d:\strawberry\perl\bin\perl.exe  path to perl interpreter (with Catalyst installed)
    c:\windows                       Windows directory

=head2 Setup IIS 6.0 (Windows 2003)

=over

=item Install FastCGI extension for IIS 6.0

FastCGI is not a standard part of IIS 6 - you have to install it
separately. For more info and the download, go to
L<http://www.iis.net/extensions/FastCGI>. Choose the appropriate version
(32-bit/64-bit); installation is quite simple (in fact no questions, no
options).

=item Create a new website

Open "Control Panel" > "Administrative Tools" > "Internet Information Services Manager".
Click "Action" > "New" > "Web Site". After you finish the installation wizard
you need to go to the new website's properties.

=item Set website properties

On the tab "Web site", set proper values for: Site Description, IP
Address, TCP Port, SSL Port, etc.

On the tab "Home Directory" set the following:

    Local path: "d:\WWW\WebApp\root"
    Local path permission flags: check only "Read" + "Log visits"
    Execute permitions: "Scripts only"

Click "Configuration" button (still on Home Directory tab) then click "Insert"
the wildcard application mapping, and in the next dialog set:

    Executable: "c:\windows\system32\inetsrv\fcgiext.dll"
    Uncheck: "Verify that file exists"

Close all dialogs with "OK".

=item Edit fcgiext.ini

Put the following lines into c:\windows\system32\inetsrv\fcgiext.ini (on 64-bit
system c:\windows\syswow64\inetsrv\fcgiext.ini):

    [Types]
    *:8=CatalystApp
    ;replace 8 with the identification number of the newly created website
    ;it is not so easy to get this number:
    ; - you can use utility "c:\inetpub\adminscripts\adsutil.vbs"
    ;   to list websites:   "cscript adsutil.vbs ENUM /P /W3SVC"
    ;   to get site name:   "cscript adsutil.vbs GET /W3SVC/<number>/ServerComment"
    ;   to get all details: "cscript adsutil.vbs GET /W3SVC/<number>"
    ; - or look where are the logs located:
    ;   c:\WINDOWS\SYSTEM32\Logfiles\W3SVC7\whatever.log
    ;   means that the corresponding number is "7"
    ;if you are running just one website using FastCGI you can use '*=CatalystApp'

    [CatalystApp]
    ExePath=d:\strawberry\perl\bin\perl.exe
    Arguments="d:\WWW\WebApp\script\webapp_fastcgi.pl -e"

    ;by setting this you can instruct IIS to serve Catalyst static files
    ;directly not via FastCGI (in case of any problems try 1)
    IgnoreExistingFiles=0

    ;do not be fooled by Microsoft doc talking about "IgnoreExistingDirectories"
    ;that does not work and use "IgnoreDirectories" instead
    IgnoreDirectories=1

=back

=head2 Setup IIS 7.0 (Windows 2008 and Vista)

Microsoft IIS 7.0 has built-in support for FastCGI so you do not have to
install any addons.

=over

=item Necessary steps during IIS7 installation

During IIS7 installation, after you have added role "Web Server (IIS)"
you need to check to install the role feature "CGI" (do not be nervous
that it is not FastCGI). If you already have IIS7 installed you can add
the "CGI" role feature through "Control panel" > "Programs and
Features".

=item Create a new website

Open "Control Panel" > "Administrative Tools" > "Internet Information Services
Manager" > "Add Web Site".

    site name: "CatalystSite"
    content directory: "d:\WWW\WebApp\root"
    binding: set proper IP address, port etc.

=item Configure FastCGI

You can configure FastCGI extension using commandline utility
"c:\windows\system32\inetsrv\appcmd.exe"

=over

=item Configuring section "fastCgi" (it is a global setting)

  appcmd.exe set config -section:system.webServer/fastCgi /+"[fullPath='d:\strawberry\perl\bin\perl.exe',arguments='d:\www\WebApp\script\webapp_fastcgi.pl -e',maxInstances='4',idleTimeout='300',activityTimeout='30',requestTimeout='90',instanceMaxRequests='1000',protocol='NamedPipe',flushNamedPipe='False']" /commit:apphost

=item Configuring proper handler (it is a site related setting)

  appcmd.exe set config "CatalystSite" -section:system.webServer/handlers /+"[name='CatalystFastCGI',path='*',verb='GET,HEAD,POST',modules='FastCgiModule',scriptProcessor='d:\strawberry\perl\bin\perl.exe|d:\www\WebApp\script\webapp_fastcgi.pl -e',resourceType='Unspecified',requireAccess='Script']" /commit:apphost

Note: before launching the commands above, do not forget to change the
site name and paths to values relevant for your server setup.

=back

=back

=head3 Setup of your application

Note that you B<MUST> have the config setting C<use_request_uri_for_path> set to true
to work in IIS7 - if you do not have this then all sub paths in your application
(e.g. /foo/bar) will resolve to the root path, i.e. /

=head1 AUTHORS

Catalyst Contributors, see Catalyst.pm

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This library is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
