=head1 NAME

App::Prove::Plugin::Idempotent - a prove plugin to keep output TAP reusable

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 prove -P Idempotent t/foo.t

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This plugin tries to keep the verbose output of C<prove> to be the
same TAP as it consumed. In particular, the final C<ok> line that is
normally added is left out. Therefore you can reuse the output TAP
stream and feed it again into a TAP parser.

See the email thread
L<here|http://www.mail-archive.com/perl-qa@perl.org/msg11830.html> for
discussion.

=head1 AUTHOR

Steffen Schwigon, C<< <ss5 at renormalist.net> >>

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The prove plugin code is shamelessly stolen from Steve Purkis'
L<App::Prove::Plugin::HTML|App::Prove::Plugin::HTML>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<prove>, L<App::Prove>


=head1 Function documentation

=head2 load

This method is called on loading prove plugin. Here we overwrite the
C<TAP::Formatter::Session::_make_ok_line> to a no-op.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc App::Prove::Plugin::Idempotent


You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * RT, CPAN's request tracker (report bugs here)
L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=App-Prove-Plugin-Idempotent>

=item * AnnoCPAN, Annotated CPAN documentation
L<http://annocpan.org/dist/App-Prove-Plugin-Idempotent>

=item * CPAN Ratings
L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/App-Prove-Plugin-Idempotent>

=item * Search CPAN
L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/App-Prove-Plugin-Idempotent/>

=back

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2011 Steffen Schwigon.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.

=cut
