=head1 NAME

AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher::KQueue - BSD file system watcher

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    $watcher = AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher::KQueue->new(
        directories => ['lib', 't'],
        callback => sub { warn "you're working too much"},
    );

    # This has the same effect as:

    $watcher = AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher->new(
        backend => 'KQueue',
        directories => ['lib', 't'],
        callback => sub { warn "you're working too much"},
    );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the BSD backend for L<AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher>.  It uses
L<IO::KQueue> as the underlying implementation.  It also works on Mac OS but
you have little reason to prefer it over
L<AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher::FSEvents> because of its limitations.

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

You should normally call the
L<constructor of the base class|AnyEvent::Filesys::Watch/"CONSTRUCTOR"> that
will pick the optimal backend for the current platform.

The following constructors are available:

=over 4

=item B<new(OPTIONS)>

Creates a new B<AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher::KQueue>.  The constructor may throw an
exception in case of an error!

B<OPTIONS> is a hash of named options:

=over 8

=item B<directories DIRECTORIES>

B<DIRECTORIES> is a reference to an array of directories to monitor. A single
directory can also be passed as a scalar.

Optional. The default is the base directory, see "base_dir" below.

=item B<dirs DIRECTORIES>

This is an alias for the option "directories".

=item B<base_dir BASE_DIRECTORY>

Relative path names for the "directories" option are resolved relative to
B<BASE_DIRECTORY>.

The default is the current working directory at the time that the
object was instantiated.

=item B<callback CALLBACK>

A code reference that is called, when a modification to the monitored
directories is deteced. The callback is passed a list of
L<AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher::Events>.

One of the options "callback" or "raw_events" (see below) are required.

=item B<cb CALLBACK>

This is an alias for the parameter B<callback>.

This argument is required if the argument B<callback> has not been given.

=item B<filter FILTER>

B<FILTER> should either be a regular expression or a code reference.  If this
is a regular expression, only (absolute) file names matching that regular
expressions can cause an event.

If B<FILTER> is a code reference, the subrouting receives the absolute file
name as an argument and should return a truthy value for all files that
should cause an event.

Optional. By default, all events are passed through.

=item B<raw_events CALLBACK>

Allows you to subscribe to the raw events returned by the os-specific backend.
The B<CALLBACK> gets invoked with a list of these backend-specific options and
should return a list of backend-specific options. Did you read this? You have
to return a list of events.

You can use this option if you are interested in the original events from your
backend or if you want to filter these events before being processed.

You can use both the option "callback" and "raw_events" but the filter
specified with the "filter" option is, of course, not applied to the raw
events because their exact structure is backend-specific.

One of the options "callback" (see above) or "raw_events" are required.

=back

All other options are ignored.

=back

=head1 METHODS

See the base class L<AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher>. This module does not have
any additional public methods.

=head1 LIMITATIONS

The underlying L<IO::KQueue> module requires to keep an open file descriptor
on every file watched. Therefore, it is not suitable for monitoring directory
structures with a lot of files.

The soft limit on open file descriptors is usually 8192 on BSD systems.  This
backend will therefore issue a warning when you reach a certain number of
open file descriptors.  The warning threshold is 128 if L<BSD::Resource> is not
installed. With L<BSD::Resource> it is half of the maximum allowed number of
open file descriptors.

=head1 ORIGINAL AUTHOR

Mark Grimes, E<lt>mgrimes@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

=over 4

=item *

Gasol Wu E<lt>gasol.wu@gmail.comE<gt> who contributed the BSD support for IO::KQueue

=item *

Dave Hayes E<lt>dave@jetcafe.orgE<gt>

=item *

Carsten Wolff E<lt>carsten@wolffcarsten.deE<gt>

=item *

Ettore Di Giacinto (@mudler)

=item *

Martin Barth (@ufobat)

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Guido Flohr E<lt>guido.flohr@cantanea.comE<gt>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher>, L<IO::KQueue>, L<BSD::Resource>,
getrlimit(2), perl(1)
