\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@c simple.texi
@setfilename simple.info
@settitle Simple Test
@c %**end of header

@ifinfo
@node Top, Overview, (dir), (dir)
@top Simple Test

This document is a simple test of Texinfo::Menus.

@menu
* Overview::                    
* Data Structures::             
* Syntax::                      

 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Data Structures

* Variable names::              
* Context::                     
* Scalar values::               

Syntax

* Syntax Overview::             
* Declarations::                
* Comments::                    
@end menu
@end ifinfo

@node Overview, Data Structures, Top, Top
@chapter Overview

Overview goes here.

@node Data Structures, Syntax, Overview, Top
@chapter Data Structures

This part comes before the menu.

@menu
* Variable names::              
* Context::                     
* Scalar values::               
@end menu

This part comes after the menu.

@node Variable names, Context, Data Structures, Data Structures
@section Variable names

Variable names defined here.

@node Context, Scalar values, Variable names, Data Structures
@section Context

Context goes here.

@node Scalar values, , Context, Data Structures
@section Scalar values

Scalar values go here.

@node Syntax, , Data Structures, Top
@chapter Syntax

Syntax goes here.  This comes before the menu.

@menu
* Syntax Overview::             
* Declarations::                
* Comments::                    
@end menu

@node Syntax Overview, Declarations, Syntax, Syntax
@section Syntax Overview

Syntax Overview goes here.

@node Declarations, Comments, Syntax Overview, Syntax
@section Declarations

Declarations come here.

@node Comments, , Declarations, Syntax
@section Comments

Comments here.

@bye
