\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@c unicode.texi
@setfilename simple.info
@settitle Simple Test
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c %**end of header

@ifinfo
@node Top, Naïve Overview, (dir), (dir)
@top Unicode Tést

This document tests Unicode handling in Texinfo::Menus.

@menu
* Naïve Overview::              This is the naïve overview
* Data Structures::             This is the data structures chapter
* Syntax::                      This is the syntax chapter

 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Data Structures

* Vâriable names::              The vâriable names section
* Context::                     The Context section
* Scalar values::               The scalar values section

Syntax

* Syntax Overview::             The syntax overview section
* Declarations::                The declarations section
* Comments::                    The comments section
@end menu
@end ifinfo

@node Naïve Overview, Data Structures, Top, Top
@chapter Naïve Overview
@c DESC: This is the naïve overview

Overview goes here.

@node Data Structures, Syntax, Naïve Overview, Top
@chapter Data Structures
@c DESC: This is the data structures chapter

This part comes before the menu.

@menu
* Vâriable names::              The vâriable names section
* Context::                     The Context section
* Scalar values::               The scalar values section
@end menu

This part comes after the menu.

@node Vâriable names, Context, Data Structures, Data Structures
@section Vâriable names
@c DESC: The vâriable names section

Variable names defined here.

@node Context, Scalar values, Vâriable names, Data Structures
@section Context
@c DESC: The Context section

Context goes here.

@node Scalar values, , Context, Data Structures
@section Scalar values
@c DESC: The scalar values section

Scalar values go here.

@node Syntax, , Data Structures, Top
@chapter Syntax
@c DESC: This is the syntax chapter

Syntax goes here.  This comes before the menu.

@menu
* Syntax Overview::             The syntax overview section
* Declarations::                The declarations section
* Comments::                    The comments section
@end menu

@node Syntax Overview, Declarations, Syntax, Syntax
@section Syntax Overview
@c DESC: The syntax overview section

Syntax Overview goes here.

@node Declarations, Comments, Syntax Overview, Syntax
@section Declarations
@c DESC: The declarations section

Declarations come here.

@node Comments, , Declarations, Syntax
@section Comments
@c DESC: The comments section

Comments here.

@bye
