=head1 NAME

App::FTNDB::Config - Fidonet/FTN SQL Database application configuration.


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is in regard to configuration of the application for the administration
of databases for Fidonet/FTN related processing. The SQL database engine is one for which a
DBD module exists, defaulting to SQLite.


=head1 CONFIGURATION

Configuration information that is not provided by the command line options is
obtained from a configuration file.  That can be defined by setting the
"-c" option, which is the path and file name of the configuration file
to be used. If that is not defined, it looks for a file named ftndb.cfg
in the current directory. The file contains configuration items listed
outside of a named section as well as those listed within a named section,
and blank lines and lines starting with a "#" are ignored.

The first items in the file are those outside of a named section:

=over 4

=item LogFile

This is the rquired filename and path of a log file.

=back

The B<Database> section in the configuration file has the following
keywords:

=over 4

=item Type

Database type.
This needs to be a database type for which a DBD module exists, the type
being the name as used in the DBD module.  The default type is SQLite.

=item Name

Database name.
For an SQLite database; this needs to be at least the filename and can
also include a path.

=item User

Database user.
For an SQLite database, this defaults to an empty string as it is not
needed for that type of a database.

=item Password

Database password.
For an SQLite database, this defaults to an empty string as it is not
needed for that type of a database.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

This is an example of the contents of an ftndb.cfg configuration file:

    # ftndb.cfg
    LogFile=/opt/ftndb/ftndb.log

    [Database]
    Type=mysql
    Name=ftndbtst
    User=sysop
    Password=ftndbtst


=head1 AUTHOR

Robert James Clay, C<< <jame at rocasa.us> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests via the web interface at
L<https://sourceforge.net/p/ftnpl/ftndb/tickets/>. I will be notified,
and then you'll automatically be notified of progress on your bug
as I make changes.

Note that you can also report any bugs or feature requests to
C<bug-ftndb at rt.cpan.org>, or through the web interface at
L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=ftndb>;
however, the ftndb Issue tracker is preferred.


=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc App::FTNDB::Config


You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * FTN Database application issue tracker

L<https://sourceforge.net/p/ftnpl/ftndb/tickets/>

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=App-FTNDB>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/App-FTNDB>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

 L<ftndbadm>, L<ftndb-admim>, L<ftndb-nodelist>, L<App::FTNDB>, L<App::FTNDB::Command::create>,
  L<App::FTNDB::Command::drop>, L<FTN::Database>, L<FTN::Database::Nodelist>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2012-2013 Robert James Clay, all rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

1;
