=pod

=for vim
   vim: tw=72 ts=3 sts=3 sw=3 et ai :

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Protocol::Tus::LocalDir


=head1 SYNOPSIS

   # implicit use
   use Protocol::Tus;
   my $tus = Protocol::Tus->new(
      model => {
         class => 'Protocol::Tus::LocalDir',
         args  => { root => '/path/to/storage' }
      }
   );

   # explicit usage
   use Protocol::Tus;
   use Protocol::Tus::LocalDir;
   
   my $model = Protocol::Tus::LocalDir->new(root => '/path/to/storage');
   my $tus = Protocol::Tus->new(model => $model);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Model implementation for storing uploads in a local file system.

It 

=head1 INTERFACE

Protocol::Tus::LocalDir extends base class
L<Protocol::Tus::AbstractModel>, implementing all abstract methods and
inheriting the other ones.

=begin silence

=over

=item C<< cleanup >>

=item C<< create_upload >>

=item C<< extensions >>

=item C<< finalize >>

=item C<< get_info >>

=item C<< save_chunk >>

=item C<< set_length >>

=back

=end silence

In addition, the following methods are available:

=head2 B<< new >>

   my $tus = Protocol::Tus::LocalDir->new(root => $some_path);

In addition from what inherited from L<Protocol::Tus::AbstractModel>,
this class mandates that C<root> is present and points to a directory in
the local file system. The directory is supposed to exist.

=head2 B<< resolve_path >>

   my $dir_path = $model->resolve_path($id, %opts);

Resolve an identifier to the directory that contains everything about
it. The return value is a L<Path::Tiny> object.

=head2 B<< root >>

   my $root_dir_path = $model->root;

Get the path to the root of the local storage for uploads. The path is
provided as a L<Path::Tiny> object.

=head2 B<< update_info >>

   $model->update_info($dir_path, $hash_ref);

Update the info about an upload. The input C<$dir_path> is supposed to
be a L<Path::Tiny> object pointing to the upload's directory. The
C<$hash_ref> holds key/values that will be added to the current info
(possibly overriding previous values).

=head1 ANYTHING ELSE (INCLUDING AUTHOR, COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE)

See documentation for L<Protocol::Tus>.


=cut
