=head1 Device::Modem::FAQ

This is a Frequently Asked Questions list about C<Device::Modem> perl extension.

=head2 What is C<Device::Modem>?

C<Device::Modem> is a L<perl> extension written in pure perl that allows to
communicate with modems, or generically with C<AT command set compliant> devices
connected to your computer via a B<serial port>.

=head2 Who is the author of this work?

Cosimo Streppone (L<cosimo@cpan.org>), an Italian guy, who works and
enjoys writing perl programs and objects. If you want to know more,
go to http://www.streppone.it/cosimo/work/perl/

=head2 BTW, what is L<Perl>?

If you are asking that, probably you are in the wrong place.

L<Perl> is a wonderful programming language, that cuts development times, helps
developer keep mental health, good life-style, doesn't pollute developer's mind,
allows complete freedom of style, and (from perl manual), I<gives you enough
rope to hang yourself>.

Some starting points:

=over 4

=item *

L<http://www.perl.com> - Reference site for Perl programmers

=item *

L<http://www.perl.org> - Perl Mongers home

=item *

L<http://cpan.perl.org> - Comprehensive Perl Archive Network

=item *

L<http://www.perlmonks.org> - Higher Perl souls

=item *

L<http://use.perl.org> - Large Perl community

=back

=head2 What is an C<AT command set>?

It is a set of standard commands, also called C<Hayes>, in which
(almost) all commands begin with C<AT> prefix and they allow to control
a modem, router, whatever device. Also cellular phones work with
a subset of standard C<AT> commands.

=head2 What is a modem?

What the heck are you doing here? http://www.google.com/search?q=Tech+glossary+modem

=head2 What are the requisites of C<Device::Modem>?

You must have:

=over 4

=item *

A working computer with a standard RS-232 serial port

=item *

An AT-compliant device (a modem will do perfectly here :-)

=item *

A working Perl installation

=item *

C<Device::SerialPort> module installed if you are on some unix platform.
C<Win32::SerialPort> module installed if you are on Win32 platform.

=back

=head2 Is it multi-platform?

C<Device::Modem> works close to the serial port communication layer,
which varies on many platforms. It relies on C<Device::SerialPort> and
C<Win32::SerialPort> modules for all low-level communication layer.

It tries to build a platform independent layer above these two low-level
modules, so developers don't need to distinguish among different platforms.

It's been reported to work on C<Win32>, C<Linux>, C<Mac OS X>, C<FreeBSD>,
C<NetBSD>, C<OpenBSD>, C<ARM-Linux> and C<Solaris>.

=head2 Can I use it for my commercial application?

Yes, it is allowed by its license, that is the same as Perl language.
If you are using it in a commercial package, or plan to do so, please
inform the author (Cosimo Streppone, L<cosimo@cpan.org|mailto:cosimo@cpan.org>).
Thank you.

=head2 Why the [insert_you_preferred_feature_here] does not work?

This is an open-source software developed in my little home spare time and
for my personal interest and amusement. This module has a test suite, but it
is not very extensive, so it is possible that some feature X does not work,
or it is not implemented yet or I cannot test it.

If you are in this situation, please contact L<me|mailto:cosimo@cpan.org>
and provide the following information:

=over 4

=item *

Your operating system version and architecture.
Complete output of C<perl -V> command is good for this.

=item *

Your perl version.
Again C<perl -V>.

=item *

Your C<Device::Modem>, C<Device::SerialPort> and (if you are using it)
C<Device::Gsm> version.
In case of doubt, send the output of:

	perl -MDevice::Modem -le 'print Device::Modem->VERSION'

=back

Thank you.

=head2 Do XModem transfers work?

This is definitely reported to be working by several users, who
also contributed patches and tested the feature.

Otherwise, just look at Aaron Mitti's Device::SerialPort::Xmodem
CPAN module.

=head2 XModem sucks. What about ZModem?

It might seem that XModem and ZModem should be well over dead at this point.
But, looks like several old/new devices still support them.

So, B<ZModem> support has been contributed by a user, and will be
added to the main release Soon(tm).

=head2 Why I keep getting "can't open device: /dev/xxxxx at .../Modem.pm line 468" errors ?

First of all, be sure to use B<Device::Modem version 1.52+>.

Probably you don't have the correct permissions to access your modem device
(usually /dev/modem, or /dev/ttyS0 on unix and COM1/COM2/... on windows).
Or you are trying to use the examples that come with Device::Modem distribution
with an older version (Device::Modem <= 1.33).

In this case, you should upgrade to Device::Modem 1.52+.

=head2 Why I get the error "Can't call method "purge_all" on an undefined value at .../Modem.pm line 545" ?

Again, B<upgrade to Device::Modem version 1.52+>.

If you get this error, it means that the communication port could not be opened.
Most probably you don't have permissions to access your serial port, or you have
used a wrong device name (check your device entry in C</dev> folder).

Since version 1.52, C<Device::Modem::connect()> will try to automatically reconnect
if your port connection shuts down, or the C<Device::SerialPort>, or C<Win32::SerialPort>
underlying object is deleted or invalidated.

You should really upgrade to Device::Modem 1.52+.

=head2 Can I make voice calls with this modem?

B<No>. What you can do, is voice call B<dialing>.
After the dialing though, you have to speak.
Your computer can not do that, unless you have a PBX board,
at least not with Device::Modem.

=head2 This module is pretty slow. What can I do?

Make sure you are using that latest version. From version 1.30, the main "send-command" / "wait-answer"
cycle has been sensibly improved for speed, though you now have to specify a timeout if you want
the module to wait an answer if modem is not ready.

Probably this is the better compromise...

=head2 Can I make a [insert_your_preferred_number_here] euro donation to you for this fantastic module?

Oh, yes!
Please feel free to contact L<cosimo@cpan.org> to decide details about this... :-)

=for html
Or, if you have nothing wrong with that, go to my <A HREF="http://www.amazon.com/gp/registry/registry.html?id=3TB9RMFORFIV5">Amazon wishlist</A>.

=for pod
Or, if you have nothing wrong with that, go to my amazon wishlist (C<http://www.amazon.com/gp/registry/registry.html?id=3TB9RMFORFIV5>).

=head2 I think you are a ?#!x$*z!#(!* and your software sucks

Uh.

Please contact me, so I can improve my software design, ideas and coding,
but only if you explain the reasons of your criticism. Thank you.
