
=head1 NAME

WWW::CPAN - CPAN as a web service

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use WWW::CPAN;

  $meta = WWW::CPAN->fetch_distmeta('Error');

  $cpan = WWW::CPAN->new;
  $meta = $cpan->fetch_distmeta('Error');
  $meta = $cpan->fetch_distmeta({ dist => 'Error' });
  $meta = $cpan->fetch_distmeta({ dist => 'Error-0.13', });
  $meta = $cpan->fetch_distmeta({ dist => 'Error', version => '0.13' }); # same as above
  $meta = $cpan->fetch_distmeta({ dist => 'Error', author => 'GBARR', format => 'json' });

  $result = $cpan->search('WWW-CPAN');
  $result = $cpan->search({ query => 'WWW-CPAN', mode => 'dist' });

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Once upon a time, Schwern waved his hands
and Graham implemented a mechanism to get the
meta data from CPAN distributions at search.cpan.org.

  http://use.perl.org/~schwern/journal/35203

  http://www.mail-archive.com/module-build@perl.org/msg01157.html

This module opportunistically implemented a client
for this capability. One day, hopefully this
may be useful.

A further addition to C<WWW::CPAN> API was the
C<search> method to fetch query data from
search.cpan.org. This is done by issuing HTTP
requests like

  http://search.cpan.org/search?query=Romanize&mode=all&format=xml

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<fetch_distmeta>

  $meta = $cpan->fetch_distmeta($text);
  $meta = $cpan->fetch_distmeta(\%params);

Fetches the meta data (F<META.yml>) of a CPAN
distribution.

Supported parameters:

  dist    - the distribution to look for
  author  - the distribution author
  version - the distribution version

=item B<search>

  $res = $cpan->search($text);
  $res = $cpan->search(\%params);

Performs a query at CPAN and returns it as a
(possibly partial) result set. The structure
of the result is illustrated by the example below.

  # result of   WWW::CPAN->search({ query => 'CPAN', mode => 'dist', n => 2 })
  {
    dist    => [
                 {
                   author  => { link => 'http://search.cpan.org/~andk/' },
                   description
                           => 'query, download and build perl modules from CPAN sites ',
                   link    => 'http://search.cpan.org/author/ANDK/CPAN-1.9205/',
                   name    => 'CPAN',
                   released
                           => '11th November 2007',
                   version => 1.9205
                 },
                 {
                   author  => { link => 'http://search.cpan.org/~dons/' },
                   description
                           => 'Download and install CPAN modules upon first use',
                   link    => 'http://search.cpan.org/author/DONS/CPAN-AutoINC-0.01/',
                   name    => 'CPAN-AutoINC',
                   released
                           => '22nd June 2004',
                   version => 0.01
                 }
               ],
    matches => 108,
    start   => 1
 };

The known parameters of the query are

  query  - what to look for
  mode   - all | module | dist | author
  n      - page size (should be <= 100)
  s      - start

The maximum page size (C<n>) is 100. Larger values
are reset into 100.

=item B<query>

  $res = $cpan->query($text);
  $res = $cpan->query(\%params);

This is a method alias to L<search>. It works just
the same.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

  cpanq
  App::WWW::CPAN

L<cpanq> is a script which illustrates the retrieval capabilities 
of this module from the command line.

=head1 BUGS

In the distribution test F<t/03meta.t>, when using
C<< WWW::CPAN->fetch_distmeta >> instead of C<< WWW::CPAN->new->fetch_distmeta >>,
the script crashes (look for the "FIXME" item).
Should be fixed in the next releases (after I understood what's going on).

Please report bugs via CPAN RT L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=WWW-CPAN>
or L<mailto://bugs-WWW-CPAN@rt.cpan.org>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Adriano R. Ferreira, E<lt>ferreira@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2007-2016 by Adriano R. Ferreira

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.
