=head1 NAME

Net::RCON::Minecraft::Response - Minecraft RCON command response

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.04

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::RCON::Minecraft;

    my $response = eval { $rcon->command($command) };

    if ($response) {
        print  "Response: " . $response->ansi . "\n";
        logger "Response: " . $response->plain;
        logger "Response: " . $response; # Stringifies to $response->plain;
    }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module encapsulates a command response from a Minecraft server. You would
not normally create one of these objects yourself; they are generated from
L<Net::RCON::Minecraft>'s C<command()> method.

Minecraft servers return commands in a format that I<may> include Minecraft
color codes, so this module provides methods to strip or convert those codes
as needed. At the time of release, vanilla Minecraft servers do not ever
transmit color codes to RCON results, but modded servers such as Bukkit do.

=head1 STRINGIFICATION

If all you need is the plaintext response with color codes stripped, in most
cases you can just use C<$response> as a string. The object is L<overload>ed
to return C<$response-E<gt>plain> in such cases.

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=head2 new( raw => $raw, id => $id )

This is called automatically by C<command()> in C<Net::RCON::Minecraft>.

Creates a new RCON command response with the given raw command response text,
and request ID.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 raw

Returns the unaltered raw command response.

    $raw = $response->raw;

=head2 plain

Returns the command response with all color codes removed.

    $plain = $response->plain;

=head2 ansi

Returns the command response with color codes converted to ANSI escape
sequences, suitable for displaying in a terminal.

    $ansi = $response->ansi;

=head2 id

Returns the numerical request ID that this response was for. These IDs are
generated automatically by C<Net::RCON::Minecraft>, and there is normally no
need to know them, but this may be useful for debugging.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<Net::RCON::Minecraft>

=item L<Term::ANSIColor>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

B<Ryan Thompson> E<lt>rjt@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2019 Ryan Thompson

This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

L<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/artistic.html>
