=pod

=head1 NAME

POEST::Server::Events - Document all the standard events.

=head1 ABSTRACT

Comprehensive documentation on all the standard events.  These are the
basic events that a standard SMTP server should implement.


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Lots of events are created by the poest server.  We should probably
write them down for someone, perhaps even you!

=head2 SMTP Events

SMTP events are only self explainitory to people who understand SMTP
commands.  Of course, RFC 2821 can help with that, but there should
be a quick explination here.

=head3 HELO

C<ARG0> is the host passed by the client, if there is one.

=head3 QUIT

The client has decided to close the connection.  A handler for this
method should set C<$heap-E<gt>{shutdown}> to a true value.  This will
tell the server to shutdown the connection.

=head2 Special SMTP Events

=head3 send_banner

This event is called as soon as a connection is established.  An SMTP
server sends a banner to tell the client who it is, that's what we
do here.

=head2 POEST::Plugin::Accept Events

=head2 POEST::Plugin::Queue Events

=head2 POEST::Plugin::Deliver Events

=head1 AUTHOR

Casey West, <F<casey@dyndns.org>>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2003 DynDNS.org

You may distribute this package under the terms of either the GNU
General Public License or the Artistic License, as specified in the Perl
README file, with the exception that it may not be placed on physical
media for distribution without the prior written approval of the author.

THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED WITH USEFULNESS IN MIND, BUT WITHOUT GUARANTEE
OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. USE IT AT YOUR
OWN RISK.

For more information, please visit http://opensource.dyndns.org

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<perl>, L<POEST::Server>.

=cut
