package App::CSVUtils::Manual::Tips;

# AUTHORITY
# DATE
our $DIST = 'App-CSVUtils'; # DIST
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: App::CSVUtils tips/tricks

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

App::CSVUtils::Manual::Tips - App::CSVUtils tips/tricks

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.052 of App::CSVUtils::Manual::Tips (from Perl distribution App-CSVUtils), released on 2022-12-05.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 GET/SET CLIPBOARD

If you process data from/to GUI spreadsheet programs, as an alternative to using
stdin/stdout (which often involves copy-pasting to GUI terminal emulator), you
can also operate on C<clipboard:> URLs as input/output to get/set data from/to
clipboard. To do this, you must first install L<lwp::protocol::clipboard>.

For example, after you copy a range of cells from LibreOffice, you can do:

 % csv-munge-row -He '$_->{foo} = some-calculation...' --input-tsv clipboard: --output-tsv -o clipboard:

The first C<clipboard:> argument retrieves CSV from clipboard in TSV format,
while the second C<clipboard:> argument sets output to clipboard where the
result of operation will be sent to clipboard as new content. This is convenient
because you don't have to copy-paste to/from terminal emulator first.

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/App-CSVUtils>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-App-CSVUtils>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTING


To contribute, you can send patches by email/via RT, or send pull requests on
GitHub.

Most of the time, you don't need to build the distribution yourself. You can
simply modify the code, then test via:

 % prove -l

If you want to build the distribution (e.g. to try to install it locally on your
system), you can install L<Dist::Zilla>,
L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>,
L<Pod::Weaver::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>, and sometimes one or two other
Dist::Zilla- and/or Pod::Weaver plugins. Any additional steps required beyond
that are considered a bug and can be reported to me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2022, 2021, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 by perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=App-CSVUtils>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
