=head1 NAME

DBIx::DBO2::Docs::ReadMe - Getting Started with DBIx::DBO2


=head1 SYNOPSIS

  package MyRecord;
  use DBIx::DBO2::Record '-isasubclass';
  my $sql_engine = DBIx::SQLEngine->new( $dsn, $user, $pass );
  
  MyRecord->table(
    DBIx::DBO2::Table->new(name=>'myrecords', datasource=>$sql_engine)
  );
  
  package main;
  my $results = MyRecord->fetch_all;
  foreach my $record ( $results->records ) {
    if ( $record->{age} > 20 ) {
      $record->{status} = 'adult';
      $record->save_row;
    }
  }


=head1 DESCRIPTION

DBIx::DBO2 is an object-relational mapping framework that facilitates the
development of Perl classes whose objects are stored in a SQL database table.


=head1 INSTALLING

You should be able to install this module using the CPAN shell interface:

  perl -MCPAN -e 'install DBIx::DBO2'

If this module has not yet been posted to your local CPAN mirror, you may
also retrieve the current distribution from the below address and follow the
normal "gunzip", "tar xf", "cd", "perl Makefile.PL && make test && sudo make
install" procedure or your local equivalent:

  http://www.evoscript.org/DBIx-DBO2/

=head2 Getting Started

You may want to take a look at the test.pl and test-lib/ classes included
with this distribution for a short example of how to use this framework to
create your own classes.

=head2 Prerequisites

Requires DBIx::SQLEngine and Class::MakeMethods, both available on CPAN.

=head2 Tested Platforms

This release has been tested succesfully on the following platforms:

  5.6.1 on darwin
  5.005_03 on i386-freebsd


=head1 VERSION

This is version 0.006 of DBIx::DBO2. 

=head2 Distribution Summary

This module's summary in the CPAN DSLIP is intended to read:

  Name            DSLIP  Description
  --------------  -----  ---------------------------------------------
  DBIx::
  ::DBO2          bdpOp  Objects mapping to SQL relational structures

=head2 Beta Release

Although it based on earlier code that was extensively tested over several
years of production use, this code has recently been majorly refactored, and
has not yet been sufficiently tested in its new form.

=head2 Discussion and Support

There is not currently any offical discussion and support forum for this
pacakage.

Further information and support for this module is available at
http://www.evoscript.org.

If you have questions or feedback about this module, please feel free to
contact the author at the below address.

I would be particularly interested in any suggestions towards improving the
documentation, correcting any Perl-version or platform dependencies, as well
as general feedback and suggestions.


=head1 SEE ALSO

See L<DBIx::DBO2::Record>, L<DBIx::DBO2::Fields>, L<DBIx::DBO2::Table>, and
L<DBIx::DBO2::TableSet> for key interfaces within this framework.

See L<DBIx::SQLEngine> for information about the underlying database
interface.

See L<DBIx::DBO2::Comparison> for a a review of where this framework fits
into the spectrum of numerous other modules on CPAN that provide alternative
systems to map objects to and from SQL databases, including L<Class::DBI>,
L<Alzabo>, and L<Tangram>.


=head1 CREDITS AND COPYRIGHT

=head2 Author

Developed by Matthew Simon Cavalletto at Evolution Softworks.

You may contact the author directly at C<evo@cpan.org> or
C<simonm@cavalletto.org>. More free Perl software is available at
C<www.evoscript.org>.

=head2 Contributors 

Many thanks to the kind people who have contributed code and other feedback:

  Eric Schneider, Evolution Online Systems
  E. J. Evans, Evolution Online Systems
  Matthew Sheahan, Evolution Online Systems
  Eduardo Iturrate, Evolution Online Systems

=head2 Copyright

Copyright 2002, 2003, 2004 Matthew Cavalletto. 

Portions copyright 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 Evolution Online Systems, Inc.

=head2 License

You may use, modify, and distribute this software under the same terms as Perl.

=cut
