=for testing
  ok(1);

=head1 NAME

APR::Request::Hook - wrapper for libapreq2's hook API.




=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use APR::Request::Hook;




=head1 DESCRIPTION


This manpage documents version 2.15
of the APR::Request::Hook package.




=head1 METHODS

APR::Request::Hook




=head2 disable_uploads

    APR::Request::Hook->disable_uploads($pool)
    APR::Request::Hook->disable_uploads($pool, $next)

Hook which returns APREQ_ERROR_GENERAL 
if a file upload field is detected. $pool
is an APR::Pool object; $next (if present)
is the next APR::Request::Hook in the chain.




=head2 apr_xml_parser

    APR::Request::Hook->apr_xml_parser($pool)
    APR::Request::Hook->apr_xml_parser($pool, $next)

Xml parser hook.  $pool is an APR::Pool object;
$next (if present) is the next APR::Request::Hook
in the chain.




=head2 discard_brigade

    APR::Request::Hook->discard_brigade($pool)
    APR::Request::Hook->discard_brigade($pool, $next)

Hook which discards the brigade it receives from the parser.
$pool is an APR::Pool object; $next (if present) is the next
APR::Request::Hook in the chain.




=head1 SEE ALSO

L<< APR::Request >>, L<< APR::Request::Parser >>




=head1 COPYRIGHT

  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
  contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
  this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
  The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
  (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
  the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.

