
=for html
<BODY BGCOLOR="#ffffff" TEXT="#000000" LINK="#4020ff" ALINK="#ff0000" VLINK="#ff2530">
<CENTER>
<FONT SIZE="+2">
Apache2::PageKit Frequently Asked Questions $Id: FAQ.pod,v 1.7 2004/01/06 16:31:47 borisz Exp $
</FONT>
<BR>
<FONT SIZE="-1">
<I>Last updated: Sep 26th, 2003</I>
</FONT>
</CENTER>
<P>

=head1 NAME

Apache2::PageKit::FAQ -- The Frequently Asked Questions for Apache2::PageKit

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    perldoc Apache2::PageKit::FAQ

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document serves to answer the most frequently asked questions for I<Apache2::PageKit>.

=head1 Basic Information & Information Sources

=head2 1.1 What is I<Apache2::PageKit>?

PageKit is an mod_perl based application framework that uses HTML::Template and
XML to separate code, design, and content. Includes session management,
authentication, form validation, co-branding, and a content management system.

Its goal is to solve all the common problems of web programming, and to make
the creation and maintenance of dynamic web sites fast, easy and enjoyable.

=head2 1.2 Where can I get it from?

The Comprehensive Perl Archive Network.

I<Apache2::PageKit> may be downloaded from CPAN I<via>:

    http://www.perl.com/cgi-bin/cpan_mod?module=Apache-PageKit

    http://search.cpan.org/search?dist=Apache-PageKit


=head2 1.3 I<Apache2::PageKit> uses I<XML>, what is it?

XML (eXtensible Markup Language) is a way to store data and meta-data.
The meta-data gives applications the ability to 'understand' the data
and work with it in an intelligent fashion.  For more information check
the sites below:

  http://www.w3.org/TR/1998/REC-xml-19980210
  http://www.xml.com/

=head2 1.4 I<Apache2::PageKit> uses I<XSLT>, what is it?

XSLT (eXtensible Stylesheet Language: Transformations)

  http://www.w3.org/TR/xslt
  http://www.w3.org/Style/XSL/
  http://www.xslinfo.com/
  http://www.oasis-open.org/cover/xsl.html
  http://www.xml.com/

XSLT is a language used to apply transformations to XML.  This powerful
tool helps seperate Content from the Presentation by changing the way
the XML is presented to the end user.  It can be used to reformat the
XML into HTML, WML, XML, PDF, POD or any other template you come up with.

=head2 1.5 Is there a webpage with more information about I<Apache2::PageKit>?

Yes, http://www.pagekit.org and http://sourceforge.net/projects/pagekit/

=head2 1.6 Is there a mailing list?

Yes, one for users and one for developers.

To subscribe look here:

    http://lists.sourceforge.net/mailman/listinfo/pagekit-users
    http://lists.sourceforge.net/mailman/listinfo/pagekit-devel

=head2 1.7 Is there a mailling list archive?

Yes,

  http://www.geocrawler.com/redir-sf.php3?list=pagekit-users
  http://www.geocrawler.com/redir-sf.php3?list=pagekit-devel

=head1 Installation

=head2 2.1 Apache segfaults on start, but only with I<Apache2::PageKit>. What is wrong?


Apache is often compiled with the expat-lite library which is
incompatible with the XML::Parser module.  PageKit prior to 1.08
requires XML::Parser.  You'll have to compile Apache with
--disable-rule=expat for these early versions of PageKit.

It is recommended that you upgrade to PageKit 1.08 or higher, which
doesn't require XML::Parser or expat.  However, if your code uses
XML::Parser Apache will still segfault.  In this case you must recompile
Apache with --disable-rule=expat or remove dependencies on XML::Parser
in your code.

The mod_perl guide has an excellect section on compiling mod_perl and
Apache from source. http://perl.apache.org/guide/

=head2 2.2 Do I really need to recompile Apache? It works without I<Apache2::PageKit>.

No, if you use I<Apache2::PageKit E<gt>= 1.08> and promise to never use C<XML::Parser>. Else yes, you must recompile Apache.

=head2 2.3 perl Makefile.PL result in Can't locate Apache/test.pm in @INC ...

You use I<mod_perl-1.28> or higher. I<Apache::test> is obsolete and renamed to
Apache::testold. The future is I<Apache::Test>. To get around the error type

  perl -i -pe 's/Apache::test\b/Apache::testold/g' Makefile.PL

Or even better upgrade I<Apache::Pagekit> to a version > 1.11. There we use
I<Apache::Test>.

=head2 2.4 I can not build libapreq or it stops working after a reboot.

You use perl >= 5.8.1 which includes a new version of ExtUtils::MakeMaker.
Read more here:
  http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=perl5-porters&m=105981649201380&w=2
  http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=apreq-dev&m=106146287323705&w=2

To fix the problem apply this patch from Steve Hay or use I<libapreq-1.3>


  --- c/Makefile.PL.orig    2001-04-03 20:24:12.000000000 +0100
  +++ c/Makefile.PL 2004-08-21 11:31:42.000000000 +0100
  @@ -34,7 +34,8 @@
   sub MY::dynamic {
       my $self = shift;
       my $string = $self->MM::dynamic;
  -    $string =~ s/(Makefile\s+).*/$1/g;
  +    $string =~ s{ \$\(INST_DYNAMIC\)}{}g;
  +    $string =~ s{ \$\(INST_BOOT\)}{}g;
       $string;
   }

=head1 Migrating to I<Apache2::PageKit> from...

=head2 3.1 I already have a website and I want to extend it with Apache2::PageKit. Where can I put my data?

You have several options, some follows.

=over 2

=item *

Copy your whole site into the directory View/Default/. Of the edited eg site of I<Apache2::PageKit>.

=item *

Copy the eg site of I<Apache2::PageKit> to a directory in the rootdir of your site ie:

  cp -R .../Apache-PageKit-x.yz/eg .../htdocs/.../pagekit

edit MyModel/Model.pm, MyModel/Common.pm and Config/Config.xml and add I<Apache2::PageKit> as the
handler for this dir in yout C<httpd.conf>.

=back

=head1 I<Apache2::PageKit> beginner's FAQ's

=head2 4.1 Can I run more as one site with one Apache Server?

Sure, as long as the Perl Classes don't conflict. (You can't run both production and development
PageKits on the same server, unless you make sure that the Classes have different names.)
You will also have to make sure that the PKIT_ROOT and cache_dir configuration
option are distinct for each server. If cache_dir is not set for either of them,
that should be fine, since it defaults to PKIT_ROOT/View/pkit_cache.

To set up, use the Apache <Location> or <Files> configuration directives.

=head2 4.2 Can I use I<Apache2::PageKit> inside Apache <VirtualHost> configuration directives?

Sure, you have to provide uniq sets of PageKit-modules and a uniq pkit_cache dir thats all.

=head1 xxxx

=head2 5.1 Is it possible to use expressions in <(MODEL|CONTENT)_(IF|UNLESS|VAR)> tags?

Yes, you have to use I<Apache2::PageKit 1.08> or higher. In your B<Config/Config.xml>
change or add this line in the global section:

  template_class = "HTML::Template::Expr"

For more information type perldoc HTML::Template::Expr.

=head2 5.2 I'm using loop_context_vars as descriped in the HTML::Template manual within my <CONTENT_(IF|UNLESS)> tags, but it did not work.

As an undocumented feature of HTML::Template, loop_context_vars B<must> be written in lowercase if
your template is case_sensitive. <CONTENT_...> is case sensitive. So change
__FIRST__, __LAST__, __INNER__, __ODD__ to  __first__, __last__, __inner__, __odd__.

=head2 5.3 How do I deal with uploads?

If you call C<< $model->apr->upload; >> Then this will return a single
Apache::Upload object in a scalar context or all Apache::Upload
objects in an array context. This is because C<< $model->apr >>
returns a Apache::Request object.

=head2 5.4 My Database busted after some time - What is wrong?

You did not use Apache::DBI. Load (use) Apache::DBI in your startup.pl
file. If for some reason the use of Apache::DBI is not possible,
close the connection in the pkit_cleanup methode.

something like this will do:

  sub pkit_cleanup {
    my $dbh = shift->dbh;
    $dbh && $dbh->disconnect;
  }

=head1 PageKit on Operatingsystem X

=head2 6.1 Did PageKit run on my systems?

Pagekit is known to run at least on the following systems:

  Darwin 6.4 powerpc
  FreeBSD 4.3
  FreeBSD 4.4
  FreeBSD 4.5
  FreeBSD 4.6
  HP UX 10
  HP UX 11
  Linux 2.2
  Linux 2.4
  Solaris 7 x86
  Solaris 8 sparc
  Solaris 8 x86
  Solaris 9 sparc
  Win 2000
  Win ME
  Win NT

=head2 6.3 My OS did not support flock, what can i do?

Add
  *CORE::GLOBAL::flock = sub {1};

to your startup.pl or in your httpd.conf file inside a <Perl> block:

  <Perl>
    *CORE::GLOBAL::flock = sub {1};
  </Perl>

=head1 Troubleshooting

=head2 I'm using MySQL Apache::Session store class and I'm getting DBD::mysql::st execute failed: Duplicate entry errors

This appears to be a DBD::mysql issue - see http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bug.html?id=1717
A workaround is to stringify the session_id if it is a number.

=head2 My sessions do not work. I'm using perl 5.8 and Apache::SessionX 2.00b3.

Install MD5. It is not part of perl core anymore. Or install this patch:


  --- SessionX/Generate/MD5.pm.orig	2002-11-11 08:35:54.000000000 +0100
  +++ SessionX/Generate/MD5.pm	2002-11-11 08:37:44.000000000 +0100
  @@ -12,12 +12,12 @@

   use strict;
   use vars qw($VERSION);
  -use MD5;
  +use Digest::MD5;

   $VERSION = '2.1';

   sub generate {
  -    my $session = shift;
  +    my $session = shift;
       my $arg = shift;
       my $length = 32;

  @@ -26,7 +26,7 @@
       }

       $session->{data}->{_session_id} =
  -        substr(MD5->hexhash(MD5->hexhash($arg || (time(). {}. rand(). $$))), 0, $length);
  +        substr(Digest::MD5::md5_hex(Digest::MD5::md5_hex($arg || (time(). {}. rand(). $$))), 0, $length);


   }


=head1 VERSION

This document is currently at version I<0.03>, as of I<Feb 10th, 2003>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Boris Zentner (bzm@2bz.de)

TJ Mather (tjmather@tjmater.com)

=head1 CREDITS

Fixes, Bug Reports, Docs have been generously provided by:

  Tomasz Konefal
  Anton Permyakov
  Vladimir Bogdanov
  Rob Starkey
  Eugene Rachinsky

Parts of this FAQ are taken from the Apache2::PageKit distribution and
the website at http://www.pagekit.org/.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2001 TJ Mather
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003, 2004 Boris Zentner

=head1 LICENSE

This FAQ is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
__END__
1. How can I store something under PageKit View/Default directory, what
PageKit would not try to "execute", e.c. *.jpg files.
2. The order which PK searches *.tmpl or *.xml files and what PK does if it
cannot find foo.tmpl or foo.xml.
3. How does session/cookies works? When session creates itself?

5. How is it possible do automatically user be logged-in (e.c. after his
successfull registration)? (the answer is a pkit_redirect(), I think...)

section 3.1
i haven't tried this myself, but is this the only step that needs to be
performed?  what exactly is data?  does it include any CGI scripts, etc?
  perhaps there should be a section dedicated to "Migrating to PageKit
from...".

