
=head1 NAME

ShiftJIS::CP932::MapUTF - transcode between Microsoft CP932 and Unicode

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use ShiftJIS::CP932::MapUTF qw(:all);

    $utf8_string  = cp932_to_utf8($cp932_string);
    $cp932_string = utf8_to_cp932($utf8_string);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The table of Microsoft Windows CodePage 932 (CP-932) comprises 7915 characters:

    JIS X 0201 single-byte characters (191 characters),
    JIS X 0208 double-byte characters (6879 characters),
    NEC special characters (83 characters, row 13),
    NEC-selected IBM extended characters (374 characters, rows 89..92),
    and IBM extended characters (388 characters, rows 115..119).

This table includes duplicates that do not round trip
map. These duplicates are due to the characters defined
by vendors, NEC and IBM.
For example, there are two characters
that are mapped to C<U+2252> in Unicode;
i.e., C<0x81e0> (a JIS X 0208 character)
and C<0x8790> (an NEC special character).

Actually, 7915 characters in CP-932 must be
mapped to 7517 characters in Unicode.
There are 398 non-round-trip mappings.

This module provides some functions to convert properly
from CP-932 to Unicode, and vice versa.

=head2 Transcoding from CP-932 to Unicode

If the first parameter is a reference,
that is used for coping with CP-932 characters
unmapped to Unicode, C<SJIS_CALLBACK>.
(any reference will not allowed as C<STRING>.)

If C<SJIS_CALLBACK> is given, C<STRING> is
the second parameter; otherwise the first.

If C<SJIS_CALLBACK> is not specified,
CP-932 characters unmapped to Unicode are silently deleted
and partial bytes are skipped by one byte.
(as if a coderef constantly returning null string, C<sub {''}>,
is passed as C<SJIS_CALLBACK>.)

Currently, only coderefs are allowed as C<SJIS_CALLBACK>.
A string returned from C<SJIS_CALLBACK> is inserted
in place of the unmapped character.

A coderef as C<SJIS_CALLBACK> is called with one or more arguments.
If the unmapped character is a partial double-byte character
(i.e. a string with onebyte length of leading byte),
the first argument is C<undef>
and the second argument is an unsigned integer representing the byte.
If the unmapped character is not partial, the first argument is
a defined string representing a character.

By default, a partial double-byte character may appear
only at the end of C<STRING>; does not in the beginning
nor in the middle (see also 't' of C<SJIS_OPTION>).

Example

    my $sjis_callback = sub {
        my ($char, $byte) = @_;
        return function($char) if defined $char;
        die sprintf "found partial byte 0x%02x", $byte;
    };

In the example above, C<$char> may be one of
C<"\x80">, C<"\x82\xf2">, C<"\xfc\xfc">, C<"\xff">.

The return value of C<SJIS_CALLBACK> must be legal in the target format.
E.g. never use with C<cp932_to_utf16be()> a callback that returns UTF-8.
I.e. you should prepare C<SJIS_CALLBACK> for each UTF.

C<SJIS_OPTION> may be specified after C<STRING>. They can be combined
like C<'tg'> and C<'gst'> (the order does not matter).

    'g'    add mappings of Gaiji (user defined characters)
           [0xF040 to 0xF9FC (rows 95 to 114) in CP-932]
           to Unicode's PUA [0xE000 to 0xE757] (1880 characters).

    's'    add mappings of undefined Single-byte characters:
           0x80 => U+0080,  0xA0 => U+F8F0,
           0xFD => U+F8F1,  0xFE => U+F8F2,  0xFF => U+F8F3.

    't'    check the Trailing byte range [0x40..0x7E, 0x80..0xFC].
           E.g. "\x81\x39" is regarded as an undefined double-byte character
           by default; with 't', it is a partial character byte 0x81
           followed by a single-byte character "\x39".

=over 4

=item C<cp932_to_utf8([SJIS_CALLBACK,] STRING [, SJIS_OPTION])>

Converts CP-932 to UTF-8.

=item C<cp932_to_unicode([SJIS_CALLBACK,] STRING [, SJIS_OPTION])>

Converts CP-932 to Unicode.
(Perl's internal format, flagged with C<SVf_UTF8>,
see F<perlunicode>)

B<This function is provided only for Perl 5.6.1 or later, and via XS.>

=item C<cp932_to_utf16le([SJIS_CALLBACK,] STRING [, SJIS_OPTION])>

Converts CP-932 to UTF-16LE.

=item C<cp932_to_utf16be([SJIS_CALLBACK,] STRING [, SJIS_OPTION])>

Converts CP-932 to UTF-16BE.

=item C<cp932_to_utf32le([SJIS_CALLBACK,] STRING [, SJIS_OPTION])>

Converts CP-932 to UTF-32LE.

=item C<cp932_to_utf32be([SJIS_CALLBACK,] STRING [, SJIS_OPTION])>

Converts CP-932 to UTF-32BE.

=back

=head2 Transcoding from Unicode to CP-932

Any duplicates are converted according to Microsoft PRB Q170559.
E.g. C<U+2252> is converted to C<"\x81\xE0">, not to C<"\x87\x90">.

If the first parameter is a reference,
that is used for coping with Unicode characters
unmapped to CP-932, C<UNICODE_CALLBACK>.
(any reference will not allowed as C<STRING>.)

If C<UNICODE_CALLBACK> is given, C<STRING> is
the second parameter; otherwise the first.

If C<UNICODE_CALLBACK> is not specified,
CP-932 characters unmapped to Unicode are silently deleted
and partial bytes are skipped by one byte.
(as if a coderef constantly returning null string, C<sub {''}>
is passed as C<UNICODE_CALLBACK>.)

Currently, only coderefs are allowed as C<UNICODE_CALLBACK>.
A string returned from the coderef is inserted
in place of the unmapped character.

A coderef as C<UNICODE_CALLBACK> is called with one or more arguments.
If the unmapped character is a partial character (an illegal byte),
the first argument is C<undef>
and the second argument is an unsigned integer representing the byte.
If not partial, the first argument is an unsigned interger
representing a Unicode code point.

For example, characters unmapped to CP-932 are
converted to numerical character references for HTML 4.01.

    sub toHexNCR {
        my ($char, $byte) = @_;
        return sprintf("&#x%x;", $char) if defined $char;
        die sprintf "illegal byte 0x%02x was found", $byte;
    }

    $cp932 = utf8_to_cp932   (\&toHexNCR, $utf8_string);
    $cp932 = unicode_to_cp932(\&toHexNCR, $unicode_string);
    $cp932 = utf16le_to_cp932(\&toHexNCR, $utf16le_string);

The return value of C<UNICODE_CALLBACK> must be legal in CP-932.

C<UNICODE_OPTION> may be specified after C<STRING>. They can be combined
like C<'fg'> and C<'gsf'> (the order does not matter).

    'g'    add mappings of Gaiji (user defined characters)
           [0xF040 to 0xF9FC (rows 95 to 114) in CP-932]
           from Unicode's PUA [0xE000 to 0xE757] (1880 characters).

    's'    add mappings of undefined Single-byte characters:
           U+0080 => 0x80,  U+F8F0 => 0xA0,
           U+F8F1 => 0xFD,  U+F8F2 => 0xFE,  U+F8F3 => 0xFF.

    'f'    add some Fallback mappings from Unicode to CP-932.
           The characters additionally mapped are
           some characters in latin-1 region [U+00A0..U+00FF], and
           HIRAGANA LETTER VU [U+3094, to KATAKANA LETTER VU, 0x8394].

=over 4

=item C<utf8_to_cp932([UNICODE_CALLBACK,] STRING [, UNICODE_OPTION])>

Converts UTF-8 to CP-932.

=item C<unicode_to_cp932([UNICODE_CALLBACK,] STRING [, UNICODE_OPTION])>

Converts Unicode to CP-932.

This B<Unicode> is coded in the Perl's internal format (see F<perlunicode>).
If not flagged with C<SVf_UTF8>, upgraded as an ISO 8859-1 (latin1) string.

B<This function is provided only for Perl 5.6.1 or later, and via XS.>

=item C<utf16_to_cp932([UNICODE_CALLBACK,] STRING [, UNICODE_OPTION])>

Converts UTF-16 (with or w/o C<BOM>) to CP-932.

=item C<utf16le_to_cp932([UNICODE_CALLBACK,] STRING [, UNICODE_OPTION])>

Converts UTF-16LE to CP-932.

=item C<utf16be_to_cp932([UNICODE_CALLBACK,] STRING [, UNICODE_OPTION])>

Converts UTF-16BE to CP-932.

=item C<utf32_to_cp932([UNICODE_CALLBACK,] STRING [, UNICODE_OPTION])>

Converts UTF-32 (with or w/o C<BOM>) to CP-932.

=item C<utf32le_to_cp932([UNICODE_CALLBACK,] STRING [, UNICODE_OPTION])>

Converts UTF-32LE to CP-932.

=item C<utf32be_to_cp932([UNICODE_CALLBACK,] STRING [, UNICODE_OPTION])>

Converts UTF-32BE to CP-932.

=back

=head2 Export

B<By default:>

    cp932_to_utf8     utf8_to_cp932
    cp932_to_utf16le  utf16le_to_cp932
    cp932_to_utf16be  utf16be_to_cp932

    cp932_to_unicode  unicode_to_cp932 (only for XS)

B<On request:>

    cp932_to_utf32le  utf32le_to_cp932
    cp932_to_utf32be  utf32be_to_cp932
                      utf16_to_cp932 [*]
                      utf32_to_cp932 [*]

[*] Their counterparts C<cp932_to_utf16()> and C<cp932_to_utf32()>
are not implemented yet. They need more investigation
on return values from C<SJIS_CALLBACK>...
(concatenation needs recognition of and coping with C<BOM>)

=head1 CAVEAT

Pure Perl edition of this module doesn't understand
any logically wide characters (see F<perlunicode>).
Use C<utf8::decode>/C<utf8::encode> (see F<utf8>) on Perl 5.7 or later
if necessary.

=head1 AUTHOR

SADAHIRO Tomoyuki <SADAHIRO@cpan.org>

Copyright(C) 2001-2007, SADAHIRO Tomoyuki. Japan. All rights reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item Microsoft PRB, Article ID: Q170559

Conversion Problem Between Shift-JIS and Unicode

=item cp932 to Unicode table

http://www.unicode.org/Public/MAPPINGS/VENDORS/MICSFT/WINDOWS/CP932.TXT

http://www.unicode.org/Public/MAPPINGS/VENDORS/MICSFT/WindowsBestFit/bestfit932.txt

http://www.microsoft.com/globaldev/reference/dbcs/932.htm

=back

=cut
