package Data::MuForm::Manual::Defaults;
# ABSTRACT: form defaults documentation

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Data::MuForm::Manual::Defaults - form defaults documentation

=head1 VERSION

version 0.04

=head1 SYNOPSIS

L<Manual Index|Data::MuForm::Manual>

How to set defaults for your fields.

=head1 Defaults

Defaults for form fields come from a number of different places. The simplest
way to set a field's default is on the field definition:

   has_field 'foo' => ( type => 'Text', default => 'my_foo' );
   has_field 'select_many' => ( type => 'Multiple', default => [1, 2, 3] );

You can also set the default for a field with a method in the form with the name
'default_<field_name>', where any periods in the field name are replaced
with underscores.

   has_field 'foo';
   sub default_foo { 'my_default' }

Or a method set with 'methods':

   has_field 'foo' => ( methods => { default => \&my_default } );
   sub my_default { 'my_default' }

For forms where you pass in a 'model' (usually a database row object), the
values in that object will be used preferentially as defaults; if an accessor exists
in the 'model' object, then the defaults in a field definition won't be used.

   $form->process( model => $row, params => {} );

You can provide some defaults from the model and some from 'init_values'. If an
accessor doesn't exist in the model, init_values will be used.

   $form->process( model => $row, init_values => $init_values, params => {} );

If you provide an empty row object for 'create' type
actions, the row is not used for defaults (unless you override the
'use_model_for_defaults' sub), so you can provide defaults in the
init_values.

   $form->process( model => $empty_row, init_values => $init_values,  params => {} );

Note: Do NOT set select field defaults by explicitly setting 'selected' or 'checked'
in the options. It will not work properly. Use one of the default methods discussed above.

=head2 Defaults when processing params

Normally when a form is posted, the params will contain all the values
that are necessary to fill in the form. However, when a form is used in
an API-like fashion, such as complex search forms, sometimes it is
convenient to only provide particular params and let the others use
defaults. If there is a default provided for a non-submitted param (except
checkboxes and selects) it will be used to fill-in-the form unless the
'skip_fields_without_input' flag has been set.

=head2 Query parameters for defaults

If you have a posted form and also some query parameters, it generally doesn't
work well to provide them both as 'params', because it will confuse the issue
of whether the form has been submitted or not, and you risk getting doubled up
parameters. Using init_values for the query parameters may work in that case.
You can also explicitly set the 'submitted' flag on the process call.

    $form->process( submitted => ( $c->req->method eq 'POST' ), params => $c->req->params );

Note that in Catalyst, there are 'query_parameters' and 'body_parameters'. The
'parameters' contains both 'query_parameters' and 'body_parameters'. Other
web frameworks probably have similar distinctions.

=head1 AUTHOR

Gerda Shank

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017 by Gerda Shank.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
