package Data::MuForm::Manual::Fields;
# ABSTRACT: brief documentation of available fields

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Data::MuForm::Manual::Fields - brief documentation of available fields

=head1 VERSION

version 0.04

=head1 SYNOPSIS

L<Manual Index|Data::MuForm::Manual>

See also L<Data::MuForm::Field> for a description of the base
field attributes.

The inheritance hierarchy of Data::MuForm Fields

   Text
      Currency
      Password
      Hidden
      Integer
      Float
      Date
      Email
   TextArea
   Select
      Multiple
   Checkbox
      Boolean
   Compound
      Repeatable
      CompoundDateTime
   Submit
   Reset
   Button
   Display
   PrimaryKey
   Upload

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A form's fields are created from the 'has_field' and 'field_list' definitions.
MuForm processes the field lists and creates an array of
L<Data::MuForm::Field> objects. The "type" of a field
determines which field class to use. The field class determines which
attributes are valid for a particular field. A number of field classes are
provided by MuForm. You can customize the validation in your form on a
per field basis, but validation that will be used for more than one field
might be more easily handled in a custom field class.

Fields are accessed with C<< form->field('name') >>.
Field errors are in C<< $field->errors >>.

If the 'field_namespace' is not set, fields will be loaded from the
Data::MuForm::Field namespace. If you provide a 'field_namespace'
it will be searched before MuForm. If you want to explicitly list the
field's package, prefix it with a plus sign. The field_namespace plus the
default name spaces 'Data::MuForm::Field' and 'Data::MuFormX::Field'
will be searched for fields.

    has '+field_namespace' => ( default => 'MyApp::Form::Field' );
    has_field 'name' => ( type => 'Text' ); # Data::MuForm::Field::Text
    has_field 'name' => ( type => '+My::FieldType' ); # My::Fieldtype
    has_field 'foo'  => ( type => '+Foo' );  # MyApp::Form::Field::Foo
      or
    has_field 'foo'  => ( type => 'Foo' );  # MyApp::Form::Field::Foo

=head1 Field categories

If you are using MuForm as a validator, you will probably pick from the
fields that are mostly about validation and not about form processing.

Fields that are useful as validators:

   Text
   Currency
   Integer
   Float
   Date
   Email
   TextArea
   Boolean
   URI
   List
   Password

Fields that are primarily for HTML forms:

   CompoundDateTime
   Submit
   Reset
   Button
   Display
   Upload

Field necessary for DBIC updates:

   PrimaryKey

Functional fields that may be needed for both validation and HTML
forms:

   Compound
   Repeatable

Fields that take an arrayref:

   Select (multiple - not nestable)
   List (not nestable)
   Repeatable (nestable)

Field that takes a hashref:

   Compound

When you are picking fields to represent the structure of your data, you
will need to match the scalar/hashref/arrayref nature of your data to the
appropriate field.

The most basic type is "Text", which can contain any kind of string, and is
represented in an HTML form as a text input. If the type of a field is not specified,
it will be set to 'Text'.

Many field classes contain only a list of constraints and transformations
to apply. Some use the 'validate' method, which is called before the actions
are applied. Some build a custom select list using 'build_options'.

There are two rough categories of Field classes: those that do extra processing
and those that are simple validators. The 'Compound', 'Repeatable', and
'Select' fields are fields that contain code to perform extra processing.

=head1 Field names

The standard way to use MuForm is with field names that match your
database accessors. If you want to prepend the HTML field names with a
name plus dot, you can set 'field_prefix' attribute to a string that
will be used as a prefix in the field names used when rendering.
The preifx will be stripped from the beginning of the HTML fields
before processing, and will be added back in 'fif'. The field's
'prefixed_name' convenience attribute will return this name for use in templates.

If you want the MuForm field name to be different than the
database accessor, set 'accessor' on your fields. (It defaults to the field
name.) You could then use any name that you want for your field.

There are a number of name-related field attributes. The 'name' is
the name used to identify this particular field in this fields array.
The 'full_name' includes the names of all parents of this field,
like 'address.street.streetname'. The 'prefixed_name' is the same as the
'full_name' unless you have set the 'field_prefix' flag, in which case
it includes the prefix: 'myform.address.street.streetname'.

To retrieve a field by name, you can use either the full_name or a
chain: C<< $form->field('address')->field('street')->field('streetname') >>
or: C<< $form->field('address.street.streetname') >>.

=head1 Creating custom fields

Subclass a custom field from L<Data::MuForm::Field>, or one of the
existing subclasses. Almost everything that is done in a custom field
class can also be done in form code. The advantage of a field class
is that it can simplify declaration of often-repeated sets of attributes.

The simplest subclasses contain only a 'validate' routine or an 'apply' attribute,
which are called during validation processing.

If the field's value will be an object instead of a simple scalar, such
as a DateTime, and you want to use the transformed value to fill in the
form, then you will also need some kind of transformation
to reformat the object into a form suitable for an HTML form field.
See L<Data::MuForm::Manual::Transforms> for more info.

Some custom fields might only require setting certain attributes to
defaults.  A 'select' field might have a special build_options method.
A field may add additional attributes, or set the 'required' message.

An alternative to new field classes for many field validations might
be roles with collections of validations.

=head1 Fields supplied by MuForm

=head2 Basic fields

The fields in this section are the basic fields, the commonly used fields
that will be most often used.

=head3 Text

A string data type that will be formatted as an HTML text field. Has 'minlength'
and 'maxlength' attributes.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Text>

=head3 Select

A field formatted as a select element.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Select>

=head3 Checkbox

A field formatted as a checkbox. If not in params, will be forced to
'false' value by 'input_without_param' attribute (0 by default).

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Checkbox>

=head3 Hidden

A hidden field.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Hidden>

=head3 Password

A password field. The value is not re-displayed.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Password>

=head3 Textarea

A textarea field.  Has 'cols' and 'rows' attributes.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::TextArea>

=head3 Upload

A file upload field that takes a filehandle or a Catalyst upload object (an
object with a 'size' method).

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Upload>

=head3 Submit

A submit field.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Submit>

=head3 Reset

A reset field.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Reset>

=head2 Complex Fields (Compound and Repeatable)

These fields are complex fields which contain a fair amount of
special code. They do not map to a single element; they contain
multiple subfields.

=head3 Compound

A compound field is a field that has sub-fields. Compound fields can be
created in two ways: 1) using a field class, 2) by declaration.

To create a compound field class, you must extend
L<Data::MuForm::Field::Compound> and use L<Data::MuForm::Meta> to
allow declaring fields:

  package MyApp::Field::Duration;
  use Moo;
  use Data::MuForm::Meta;
  extends 'Data::MuForm::Field::Compound';

  has_field 'month' => (type => 'Integer');
  has_field 'day' => ( type => 'Integer' );
  has_field 'minutes' => ( type => 'Integer' );

Then in the form:

  has_field 'my_duration' => ( type => 'Duration' );

To create a compound field by declaration, declare the containing
compound field and subfields, prefixing the subfield names
with the name of the containing compound field plus a dot:

   package MyApp::Form;
   use Moo;
   use Data::MuForm::Meta;
   extends 'Data::MuForm';

   has_field 'duration' => ( type => 'Compound' );
   has_field 'duration.month' => ( type => 'Integer' );
   has_field 'duration.day' => ( type => 'Integer' );
   has_field 'duration.year' => ( type => 'Integer' );

In an HTML form the name of the field must be the complete name
with dots. The 'html_name' field attribute can be used to get
this name, C<< $field->html_name >>.

A compound field can be used for a database relation that will have only
one row (belongs_to or has_one). If the relation has a compound primary
key, you may need to provide the primary key columns, either through
hidden fields or by setting them in the C<< $form->value >> hash before
'update_model' is called.

See also L<Data::MuForm::Field::Compound>.

=head3 Repeatable

Repeatable fields are used for arrays of compound fields.

   has_field 'addresses' => ( type => 'Repeatable' );
   has_field 'addresses.address_id' => ( type => 'PrimaryKey' );
   has_field 'addresses.street';
   has_field 'addresses.city';
   has_field 'addresses.country' => ( type => 'Select' );

The arrays of fields will be built from arrays passed in the params, or from
related ('has_many') rows in the database.

It is also used for arrays of single fields using the 'contains' keyword:

  has_field 'tags' => ( type => 'Repeatable' );
  has_field 'tags.contains' => ( type => '+Tag' );

See L<Data::MuForm::Field::Repeatable> for more information.

=head2 Text Fields

Fields subclassed from the Text field.

=head3 Text

Text field.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Text>

=head3 Money

Positive or negative real value, formatted to two decimal places.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Money>

=head3 Date

Date field that can be used by jQuery datepicker plugin.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Date>

=head3 DateMDY

A subclass of 'Date' with the "%m/%d/%Y" format.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::DateMDY>

=head3 Email

Uses Email::Valid for validation.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Email>

=head3 Integer

Positive and negative integers. Can use range_start and range_end.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Integer>

=head3 PosInteger

A positive integer field.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::PosInteger>

=head3 Float

Float field that allows you to set size, precision, decimal_symbol, and
decimal_symbol_for_db.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Float>

=head3 TextCSV

A text field that takes multiple values from a database and converts
them to comma-separated values. This is intended for javascript fields
that require that, such as 'select2'. This is the only 'multiple' text
field. This text field would be a select-type field for the user.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::TextCSV>

=head2 Compound Fields

Fields subclassed from 'Compound'.

=head3 Compound

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Compound>

=head3 Repeatable

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Repeatable>

=head3 Duration

Compound field with possible subfields: years, months, weeks, days, hours,
minutes, seconds, nanoseconds.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Duration>

=head3 DateTime

A compound field that requires you to provide the subfields that
you want. (month/day/year/hour/minutes)

L<Data::MuForm::Field::DateTime>

=head2 Checkbox Fields

Fields that inherit from 'Checkbox'.

=head3 Checkbox

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Checkbox>

=head3 Boolean

Checkbox that return 1 or 0.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Boolean>

=head2 Select Fields

Fields that inherit from 'Select'.

=head3 Select

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Select>

=head3 Multiple

Multiple select. Also sorts the selected options to the top of
the select list.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Multiple>

=head2 SelectCSV

A multiple select field for comma-separated values in the database.
It expects database values like: '1,5,7'. The string will be inflated
into an arrayref for validation and form filling, and will be deflated
into a comma-separated string in the output value.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::SelectCSV>

=head3 BoolSelect

A field with three possible values: empty/0/1.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::BoolSelect>

=head3 Hour

Integer select range field from 0-23.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Hour>

=head3 Second

Select field with range from 0-59.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Second>

=head3 IntRange

An integer select field. Can set label format with 'label_format'.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::IntRange>

=head3 Month

Select field with range from 1 - 12.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Month>

=head3 MonthDay

Select field with range from 1 - 31.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::MonthDay>

=head3 MonthName

Select field with month name labels, value 1-12.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::MonthName>

=head3 Minute

Select field with range from 0-59.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Minute>

=head3 Weekday

A select field where the labels are the names of the week, and the
values are 0-6.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Weekday>

=head3 Year

Select field providing year list 5 years back and 10 years forward.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Year>

=head2 Fields that don't provide a 'value'

=head3 Submit

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Submit>

=head3 Reset

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Reset>

=head3 Button

Button field that is rendered by the Button widget.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Button>

=head3 Display

Non-data field used for inserting HTML into the form.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::Display>

=head2 Other fields

=head3 PrimaryKey

Hidden field that provides the primary key for Repeatable fields.

L<Data::MuForm::Field::PrimaryKey>

=head1 AUTHOR

Gerda Shank

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017 by Gerda Shank.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
