package Data::MuForm::Manual::Transformations;
# ABSTRACT: Transformation of field inputs and values

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Data::MuForm::Manual::Transformations - Transformation of field inputs and values

=head1 VERSION

version 0.04

=head1 SYNOPSIS

L<Manual Index|Data::MuForm::Manual>

Various transformations on the input and value.

=head2 DESCRIPTION

In order to understand which transform you want to use, it helps to understand
how data is moved in MuForm.

Data from the 'model' or 'init_values' initially fills in the field 'value' attributes.
If there are params/data to be be processed, they fill in the 'input' attributes.
When validation is performed, the input is copied to the value.

=head2 Transforms

There are a number of methods to provide finely tuned transformation of the
input or value.

=over 4

=item transform_param_to_input

Transform the param when it's copied into 'input'. Will change what the user sees
in a re-presented form.

=item transform_input_to_value

Transforms the string that when it's copied from 'input' to 'value' during
validation.

(In FH was 'inflate_method'.)

=item transform_value_to_fif

The 'fif' (fill-in-form) values is used in rendering. If the form was submitted
with params, the 'input' is used for 'fif', but when there is no input, the 'value'
is used. This happens when the form is initially presented and has been filled
with values from the 'model', 'init_values', or the field 'default'.
This transforms the 'value' to a string suitable for filling in a form field.

(In FH was 'deflate_method'.)

=item transform_default_to_value

Transform the 'default' provided by an 'model' or 'init_values' or 'default' when it's stored
in the 'value'.

(In FH was inflate_default_method.)

=item transform_value_after_validate

Transform the value after validation has been performs, in order to return
a different form in C<< $form->value >>.

(In FH was 'deflate_value_method'.)

=item trim

A transform to trim the field. The default 'trim' sub
strips beginning and trailing spaces.
Set this attribute to null to skip trimming, or supply a different
sub. This method is called right after 'transform_input_to_value'.

=back

=head2 Transform during validation

You can also transform during validation, in a field validation sub or in
an 'apply' action. There is a 'transform' flavor of apply action. See the
L<Data::MuForm::Manual::Validation>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Gerda Shank

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017 by Gerda Shank.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
