=head1 NAME

Tk::DBI::LoginDialog - DBI login dialog class for Perl/Tk.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Tk::DBI::LoginDialog;

  my $top = new MainWindow;

  my $d = $top->LoginDialog(-dsn => 'XE');
 
  $d->username("scott");	# default a username

  my $dbh = $d->login;

  print $d->error . "\n"
	unless defined($dbh);

  # ... or ...

  $d->Show;

  print $d->error . "\n"
	unless defined($d->dbh);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

"Tk::DBI::LoginDialog" is a dialog widget which interacts with the DBI
interface specifically to attempt a connection to a database, and thus
returns a database handle.

This widget allows the user to enter username and password details
into the dialog, and also to select driver, and other driver-specific
details where necessary.

The dialog presents three buttons as follows:

=over 4

=item B<Cancel>: hides the dialog without further processing.

=item B<Exit>: calls the defined exit routine.  See L<CALLBACKS>.

=item B<Login>: attempt to login via DBI with the credentials supplied.

=back

These button labels may be overridden using the B<-buttons> and 
B<-default_button> arguments (refer to the L<Tk::DialogBox> widget for detail).


=cut

=head1 WIDGET-SPECIFIC OPTIONS

C<LoginDialog> provides the following specific options:

=over 4

=item B<-mask>

The character or string used to hide (mask) the password.


=cut

=item B<-pressed>

The name of the button pressed during a login sequence.


=cut

=item B<-retry>

The number of times that attempts will be made to login to the database
before giving up.  A default applies.

=back


=cut

=head1 CALLBACKS

C<LoginDialog> provides the following callbacks:

=over 4

=item B<-command>

Per the DialogBox widget, this maps the B<Login> button to the
L<DBI> login routine.


=cut

=item B<-exit>

The sub-routine to call when the B<Exit> button is pressed.
Defaults to B<Tk::exit>.


=cut

=item B<-showcommand>

This callback refreshes items in the dialog as part of the B<Show> method.

=back


=cut

=head1 ADVERTISED WIDGETS

Component subwidgets can be accessed via the B<Subwidget> method.
Valid subwidget names are listed below.

=over 4

=item Name:  driver, Class: BrowseEntry

Widget reference of B<driver> drop-down widget.


=cut

=item Name:  dsn, Class: Entry

=item Name:  username, Class: Entry

=item Name:  password, Class: Entry

Widget references for the basic credential entry widgets.


=cut

=item Name:  L_driver, Class: Label

=item Name:  L_dsn, Class: Label

=item Name:  L_username, Class: Label

=item Name:  L_password, Class: Label

Widget references of the left-most label widgets.


=cut

=item Name:  error, Class: ROText

Widget reference of the status/error message widget.

=back


=cut

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<connect>(Driver, DSN, Username, Password)

The DBI connection routine.  This does not interact with any Tk widgets
so can be called natively, if required.  This routine is also called when
the B<Login> button is pressed.  Returns a database handle and a string
message indicating status of connection attempt.


=cut

=item B<dbh>

Returns the database handle associated with the current object.


=cut

=item B<disconnect>

Will call the DBI disconnection routine, using the stored handle.
This routine is called when the B<Login> button is pressed. 


=cut

=item B<driver> [EXPR]

Set or return the B<driver> property.  For specific drivers, the label
associated with the B<dsn> may also change to better match the nomenclature
of the specified database management system.

If a driver is specified which is not currently "available", then this 
method will re-set the driver to the first available.


=cut

=item B<drivers> [LIST]

Returns a list of available drivers.
This defaults to those drivers defined as available by DBI.
Note that it is possible to override this list, however this should be
done with caution, as it could cause DBI errors during the login process.
The most likely use of this method is to constrain the list of drivers
to a subset of those available by default.


=cut

=item B<dsn> [EXPR]

Set or return the B<dsn> property.  In some drivers this refers to the
database name or database instance.


=cut

=item B<error>

Return the latest error message from the DBI framework following an
attempt to connect via the specified driver.
If last connection attempt was successful,
this will return the DBI message "Connected okay."


=cut

=item B<login> [RETRY]

A convenience function to show the login dialog and attempt connection.
The number of attempts is prescribed by the B<RETRY> parameter, which is
optional.
Returns a DBI database handle, subject to the DBI B<connect> method.


=cut

=item B<password> [EXPR]

Set or return the B<password> property.
May not be applicable for all driver types.


=cut

=item B<Show>

The Show method behaves as per the DialogBox widget.

=item B<username> [EXPR]

Set or return the B<username> property.
May not be applicable for all driver types.


=cut

=item B<version> [0|1]

Toggle the display of this widget's version number (module version).
This can only be done programmatically.  
The default behaviour is to hide the version.
Irrespective of the argument passed, this routine will return the 
version number.


=cut

=back

=head1 VERSION

Build V1.006

=head1 AUTHOR

Copyright (C) 2014-2016  B<Tom McMeekin> E<lt>tmcmeeki@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License,
or any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<perl>, L<DBI>, L<Log::Log4perl>, L<Tk>, L<Tk::DialogBox>.


=cut

