=head1 NAME

WebDriver::Tiny::Elements

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Actions

=head3 click

 $elems->click;

=head3 clear

 $elems->clear;

=head3 send_keys

 $elems->send_keys('The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog');

=head3 submit

=head3 tap

=head2 Attributes

=head3 attr

=head3 css

=head3 enabled

=head2 html

 say $elem->html;

Get a serialized HTML fragment describing the element including its
descendants.

=head3 location

Get an element's location on the page.

Accepts no arguments.
Returns a hashref containing C<x> and C<y>.

=head3 location_in_view

Get an element's location on the screen once it has been scrolled into view.

Accepts no arguments.
Returns a hashref containing C<x> and C<y>.

=head3 rect

=head3 selected

=head3 tag

=head3 text

Get the combined text contents of each element in the set of matched elements,
including their descendants.

=head3 visible

=head2 Manipulation

The following methods merely return information about this collection or
return a new collection, none of them involve a call to the server.

=head3 append

Returns a new collection containing all the elements in the original plus any
that were passed as arguments.

=head3 first

Returns a new collection containing only the first element in this collection.

=head3 last

Returns a new collection containing only the last element in this collection.

=head3 size

Returns a count of how many elements are in the collection.

=head3 slice

Returns a new collection containing the elements of the current collection,
indentified by indices, starting at zero e.g.

 $elems->slice(0);       # Same as first.
 $elems->slice(1, 2);    # The second and the third elements.
 $elems->slice(-1);      # Same as last.

=head3 split

Splits a collection into a list of collections, with each collection
containing one element.

 @elems = $elems->split;

 $elems->split == $elems->size;  # true

=head3 uniq

Returns a new collection containing no duplicate elements, order is not
preserved.

=head2 Other

=head3 find

=head3 screenshot
 my $png_blob = $elem->screenshot;

 $elem->screenshot('/tmp/foo.png');

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<WebDriver::Tiny>
