=head1 NAME

kibozerc - documentation on configuration files for News::Archive

=head1 DESCRIPTION

News::Archive scripts are locally configured with the ~/.kibozerc file, or
whatever file is set at run-time.  This file is a parsable perl script
that offers local configuration.  

=head2 Necessary Keys

=over 4

=item $KIBOZEDIR = ""; 

Should be set to a valid directory where the kiboze files can be stored.

=item $LOCALNAME = "";

The hostname that should be added to the Path: and Xref: of all articles
archived in the News::Archive object.

=back

=head2 Optional Keys

=over 4

=item $DB_TYPE

The database type that we will use for storing the history file and such.
Defaults to DB_File; you may want to set this to SDBM_File if that isn't
installed.

=item %SERVERS

A hash of server/newsrc pairs to keep track of downloaded information.
Defaults to { $ENV{'NEWSSERVER'} => "$KIBOZEDIR/newsrc" }.  This file has
to be populated.

=item $MAXARTS

Maximum number of articles for kiboze.pl to get per-run; defaults to 1000.

=item $TITLE

Web page title.

=item $HTMLHEAD

A coderef to call for HTML headers.  Defaults within each script.

=item $HTMLFOOT

A coderef to call for HTML footers.  Defaults within each script.

=item $STYLESHEET

A stylesheet to load with $HTMLHEAD.

=back

=head1 SAMPLE FILE 

  $STYLESHEET   = "stylesheet.css";               # Per-directory basis.
  $KIBOZEDIR    = "/home/tskirvin/news/cmi";      # Where to put the files?
  $DB_TYPE      = "DB_File";                      # What kind of database?
  %SERVERS      = (
        "news.ks.uiuc.edu"  =>  "$KIBOZEDIR/newsrc",
                  );
  $MAXARTS      = 10000;
  $ARCHIVEGROUP = "";
  $LOCALNAME    = "archive.killfile.org";
  $TITLE        = "cmi.*";
  $DEBUG        = 0;

=head1 NOTES

Remember that a different configuration files can generally be selected
with the '-c' option.

=head1 TODO

Make something to auto-configure a base kibozerc file.

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<News::Archive>

C<kiboze.pl>, C<mbox2news.pl>, C<newsrecurse.pl>

=head1 AUTHOR

Tim Skirvin <tskirvin@killfile.org>

=head1 HOMEPAGE

B<http://www.killfile.org/~tskirvin/software/news-archive/>

=head1 LICENSE

This code may be redistributed under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2003-2004, Tim Skirvin.

=cut
