=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

C<Device::Chip::TMP102> - chip driver for a F<TMP102>

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Device::Chip::TMP102;

 my $chip = Device::Chip::TMP102->new;
 $chip->mount( Device::Chip::Adapter::...->new )->get;

 printf "Temperature is %2.2f C\n", $chip->read_temp->get;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This L<Device::Chip> subclass provides specific communication to a
F<Texas Instruments> F<TMP102> attached to a computer via an I²C adapter.

Not all of the chip's capabilities are currently accessible through this driver.  Extended mode is supported.

The reader is presumed to be familiar with the general operation of this chip;
the documentation here will not attempt to explain or define chip-specific
concepts or features, only the use of this module to access them.


=cut

=head1 MOUNT PARAMETERS

=head2 addr

The I²C address of the device. Can be specified in decimal, octal or hex with
leading C<0> or C<0x> prefixes.


=cut

=head1 METHODS

The following methods documented with a trailing call to C<< ->get >> return
L<Future> instances.


=cut

=head2 read_config

   $config = $chip->read_config->get

Reads and returns the current chip configuration as a C<HASH> reference.

   SD  => 0 | 1
   TM  => 0 | 1
   POL => 0 | 1
   F   => "1" | "2" | "4" | "6"
   R0  => 0 | 1  (read only)
   R1  => 0 | 1  (read only)
   OS  => 0 | 1
   EM  => 0 | 1
   AL  => 0 | 1
   CR  => "0.25Hz" | "1Hz" | "4Hz" | "8Hz"


=cut

=head2 change_config

   $chip->change_config( %config )->get

Changes the configuration. Any field names not mentioned will be preserved.


=cut

=head2 read_temp

   $temp = $chip->read_temp->get

Returns the temperature in degrees Celsius.


=cut

=head2 write_temp_low

   $chip->write_temp_low( $temp )->get

Changes the low temperature threshold in degrees Celsius.


=cut

=head2 read_temp_low

   $temp = $chip->read_temp_low->get

Returns the low temperature threshold in degrees Celsius.


=cut

=head2 write_temp_high

   $chip->write_temp_high( $temp )->get

Changes the high temperature threshold in degrees Celsius.


=cut

=head2 read_temp_high

   $temp = $chip->read_temp_high->get

Returns the high temperature threshold in degrees Celsius.


=cut

