=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Bot::ChatBots::Telegram::LongPoll - Telegram updates receiver, long-poll

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use Bot::ChatBots::Telegram::LongPoll;
   my $lp = Bot::ChatBots::Telegram::LongPoll->new(
      token     => $ENV{TOKEN},
      processor => \&processor,
      start     => 1,
   );
   sub processor { # tube-compliant
      my $record = shift;
      # ... $record is normalized, by default
      return $record; # follow on..
   }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is an updates receiver and dispatcher for the Telegram
infrastructure. It connects to Telegram's API for I<long-poll> style (i.e.
pulling updates continuously), so it's somehow inefficient but should let
you get started in all conditions in which you can at least browse the
Internet (webhook require that your endpoint lives in a routable place).

At the base, you have to provide I<at least> the L</token> and the
L</processor>. The former is needed to connect to Telegram and get
updates, the latter is what will be invoked for each update that is
received.

When you have an object, you have to L</start> to get the ball rolling.
You can also pass C<start> in the constructor, this will start the
L<Mojo::IOLoop> directly (so you can use it in case you don't have other
stuff to do).

When invoked, the L</processor> tube can return a record with the C<response>
field set. In this case, this update receiver can act also on the other way
around, and send the C<response> towards Telegram using a
L<Bot::ChatBots::Telegram::Sender>.

=head1 ACCESSORS

This class consumes roles L<Bot::ChatBots::Telegram::Role::Source> and
L<Bot::ChatBots::Role::Source> and all its accessors.

=head2 B<< connect_timeout >>

   my $to = $obj->connect_timeout;
   $obj->connect_timeout(10);

Acccessor for the connection timeout for
L<Bot::ChatBots::Telegram::Sender>'s user agent (this is
L<Mojo::UserAgent>).

=head2 B<< interval >>

   $secs = $obj->interval;
   $obj->interval(0.2); # secs

Accessor for the interval of scheduling calls to C<getUpdates>. You can
set this to a pretty low value (default is 0.1 seconds) because there is
a flag that prevents calls from being sent if another one is ongoing.

=head2 B<< max_redirects >>

   my $n = $obj->max_redirects;
   $obj->max_redirects(7); # default is 5

Accessors for maximum number of redirects acceptable for the underlying
L<Mojo::UserAgent>. Defaults to 5.

=head2 B<< sender >>

   my $sender = $obj->sender;
   $obj->sender(Bot::ChatBots::Telegram::Sender->new(token => $token));

Accessor for the L<Bot::ChatBots::Telegram::Sender> object used for
managing communications from/to Telegram.

=head2 B<< update_timeout >>

   my $to = $obj->update_timeout;
   $obj->update_timeout(30);

Accessor to set/get the C<update_timeout> set in the C<getUpdates> call to
the Telegram API. Defaults to 300 seconds, i.e. you should get I<at least>
one update every 5 minutes.


=head1 METHODS

This class consumes roles L<Bot::ChatBots::Telegram::Role::Source> and
L<Bot::ChatBots::Role::Source> and all its methods.

=head2 B<< BUILD >>

Method called upon construction. It checks for the presence of a C<start>
parameter set to I<true> and in case calls L</start>.

=head2 B<< class_custom_pairs >>

   my @pairs = $obj->class_custom_pairs;

Returns custom pairs, used by role L<Bot::ChatBots::Role::Source>. It adds
a C<token> to the parameters put in the C<source> key inside the record
passed to the C<process> method, when invoked.

=head2 B<< parse_response >>

   my @updates = $obj->parse_response($res, $threshold_id);

Parse the response to the polling request (C<$res> is
a L<Mojo::Message::Result> object) and filters all updates whose
identifier (according to field C<update_id>) are greater than, or equal
to, the C<$threshold_id>. It takes care to check the return values and the
rest.

=head2 B<< poller >>

   my $subref = $obj->poller(%args);
      $subref = $obj->poller(\%args);

Build a polling sub reference suitable for being installed as a repetitive
task in L</start>. This I<poller> sends one single request to the Telegram
endpoint for the I<longpoll> and processes one single response.

In particular, it extracts the list of updates from the response and calls
L<Bot::ChatBots::Role::Source/process_updates> on them.

The C<source> key in the record that is eventually generated contains:

=over

=item *

C<refs> with C<sender>, C<tx> and C<ua>

=item *

an additional item in C<source> that is a hash reference associated to the
key C<query>. Inside this you can find a key C<offset> that you can use to
increase the offset to be used in following calls. This is done
automatically in L</process>.

=back

=head2 B<< process >>

   my $retval = $self->process($record);

Wrapper around L<Bot::ChatBots::Role::Source/process> to cope with the
need to increase the C<offset> for each incoming update (see L</poller>
for additional details).

=head2 B<< start >>

   $obj->start(%args); # OR
   $obj->start(\%args);

Start polling Telegram for new updates. L</poller> is called to retrieve
a sub reference that is then installed as a recurring job according to
L</interval>.

This method is called automatically upon object construction if option
C<start> is present and set to a I<true> value.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Bot::ChatBots>, L<Bot::ChatBots::Telegram::WebHooks>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Flavio Poletti <polettix@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2016 by Flavio Poletti <polettix@cpan.org>

This module is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

=cut
