=head1 NAME

ARSObject - high level interface above ARS module

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use ARSObject;
  my $s =ARSObject->new(-srv =>'ip address',-usr => 'username',-pswd =>'******'
		,-storable => 0
		,-schema =>['BMC.CORE:BMC_ComputerSystem','BMC.CORE:BMC_ApplicationSystem']
		,-metaid =>{
		'1' => 'RequestId'
		,'6' => 'ModifiedDate'
		,'179' => 'InstanceId'
		,'1000000001' => {fieldName=>'Company'}
		,'200000020' => 'Name'
		});
  $s->connect();
  my $hac ={};
  $s->query(-from=>'BMC.CORE:BMC_ComputerSystem'
			,-where=>"('DatasetId'=\"BMC.ASSET\")"
				." AND ('Company'=\"$company\")"
			,-fields=>['Name', 'ModifiedDate', 'RequestId', 'InstanceId', 'ShortDescription', 'InstanceId', 'DatasetId', 'TokenId', 'OwnerName', 'OwnerContact', 'TagNumber', 'Description', 'HostName', 'Domain', 'Workgroup', 'CMDBRowLevelSecurity', 'Company', 'Region', 'AssetLifecycleStatus']
			,-order=>['Name']
			,-for=>sub{$hac->{$_[3]->{Name}} =$_[3];
				}
		);
  print $s->dsdump($hac);


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is intended for capable scripts above L<ARS|ARS> module
(L<../../ARSPerl/index.html>).

It caches metadata alike L<Remedy::ARSTools|Remedy/ARSTools>,
but uses L<Data::Dumper|Data/Dumper> or L<Storable|Storable> module.
And metadata model is directly given from ARS::ars_GetFieldTable()/ARS::ars_GetField(),
unlike L<ARSOOForm|ARSOOForm> and L<Remedy::ARSTools|Remedy/ARSTools>.
And additional description level (C<-metadn>/C<-metaid>) added to unify field names
and extend conversion capabilities of field values.

Field names and values are translated (C<-strFields>/C<strIn>/C<strOut>)
as possible.

C<query>() method supports iterator sub{} and uses ARS::ars_GetListEntry(), 
ARS::ars_GetListEntryWithFields(), ARS::ars_GetEntry() calls
as appropriate with parameters given.

C<entry>(), C<entryIns>(), C<entryUpd>(), C<entryDel>() methods 
are usual to manipulate records.

C<entryNew>() method may be used to form new record hash with default values for C<entryIns>().

C<entryDif>() method may be used to minimise data for C<entryUpd>().

C<AUTOLOAD>() method is to call 'ARS::ars_XXX' functions as methods.

Special processing added for 'HPD:Help Desk' ITSM Suite form.

C<Variable files> may be used to cache any data.

Misc C<Utility Methods> intended for strings, dates, data structures.

C<Utility Objects> added to simplify and unify access to 
L<DBI|DBI>, L<CGI|CGI>, L<Net::SMTP|Net/SMTP> modules.



=back


=head1 CLASSIFICATION

=over


=item Creation and Configuration

C<new>, C<set>, C<Slots>


=item Error Processing and Echo

C<-die>, C<-warn>, C<-echo>, C<-cpcon>/C<cpcon>;
C<ars_errstr>, C<dbierrstr>


=item Connection

C<connect>(C<-srv> => server, C<-usr> => name, C<-pswd> => password, C<-lang> => language);
C<-ctrl>

C<dbiconnect>(C<-dbiconnect>); C<-dbi>


=item Metadata

C<connect>; C<arsmeta>, C<arsmetamin>; C<schema>,...; C<lsflds>;
C<-schema>, C<-meta>/C<-meta-min>/C<-meta-sql>, C<-metax>, C<-metadn>, C<-metaid>, C<-schgen>, C<-schfdo>, C<-strFields>;
C<Variable files>



=item Variable files

C<-vfbase>, C<-storable>;
C<vfname>, C<vfload>, C<vfstore>, C<vfclear>, C<vfdata>, C<vfhash>, C<vfdistinct>


=item ARS methods

C<connect>, C<query>, C<entry>, C<entryNew>, C<entryIns>, C<entryUpd>, C<entryDel>, C<entryBLOB>, C<AUTOLOAD>;

C<-strFields>, C<strIn>, C<strOut>;

C<arsquot>;

C<-maxRetrieve>



=item Utility Methods

C<strquot>, C<strquot2>, C<arsquot>;

C<cptran>, C<cpcon>;

C<strtime>, C<timestr>, C<timeadd>;

C<dsquot>, C<dsquot1>;

C<dsdump>, C<dsparse>, C<dscmp>, C<dsmerge>, C<dsunique>;

C<fopen>, C<fload>, C<fstore>, C<fdirls>;

C<soon>



=item Utility Objects

C<dbi>, C<-dbi>, C<dbiconnect>, C<-dbiconnect>;
C<dbiquery>, C<dbido>; C<dbierrstr>

C<cgi>, C<-cgi>, C<cgiconnect>;
C<cgipar>, C<cgiesc>, C<cgitfrm>, C<cgitext>, C<cgistring>, C<cgiselect>, C<cgiddlb>

C<smtp>, C<-smtp>, C<smtpconnect>, C<-smtphost>; C<smtpsend>



=item SQL Data Store Methods

C<arsmetasql>, C<sqlname>, C<dbidsmetasync>, C<dbidsrpl>, C<dbidsquery>;

C<-meta-sql>; C<-sqlschema>;

C<-sqlname>, C<-sqlntbl>, C<-sqlncol>, C<-sqlninc>



=item CGI Form Presenter

C<-fpl> => [-formdb=>'...',-record=>'...', {action field},.. {view/edit field},.., {button field},..}]

C<-fphc> => {'cgi field name' => {field definition},..}

C<-fphd> => {'db field name' => {field definition},..}

C<cfprun>, C<cfpaction>, C<cfpv>, C<cfpvv>, C<cfpvl>, C<cfpvp>

* action field: C<-name>.., C<-preact> || C<-action>, C<-widget>=>undef, C<-used>=>condition sub{}

* key field: C<-name>.., C<-key>=>1, C<-readonly>=>1

* text: C<-widget>=>'html'

* edit field: C<-name>..,

* computed: C<-name>.., C<-computed>=>sub{}

* readonly: C<-name>.., C<-readonly>=>1

* do not store: C<-name>.., C<-entryIns>=>0, C<-entryUpd>=>0, C<-vfstore>=>0

* list&refresh: C<-name>.., C<-onchange>=>1, C<-labels>, C<-values>

* optional button field: C<-name>.., C<-action>=>1, C<-used>=>condition



=item CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions

(for each field inside C<CGI Form Presenter - Fields>)

C<-name>, C<-namecgi>, C<-namedb>, C<-metadb> => 'field name'

C<-namelbl>, C<-namecmt> => 'text for user'

C<-namehtml> => sub{} -> 'html for user'

C<-formdb> => 'name', C<-record> => 'name' || 'nameRowNumber'

C<-used>, C<-unused> => boolean || 'field name' || ['field',...] || condition sub{}

C<-entryIns>, C<-entryUpd>, C<-vfstore> => !exists ||false

C<-preact> || C<-action> => 'action name' || action sub{} -> success

C<-vfname> => 'name', C<-vfrenew>, C<-vfedit>, C<-vftran> => boolean

C<-key> => boolean

C<-master> => 'field name'

C<-computed>, C<-value> => value || ['field from'] || sub{} -> value

C<-undef> => value

C<-values> => [value,..] || sub{}, C<-labels> => {value => label,..} || sub{}; C<-lbtran>, C<-lbadd> => boolean

C<-reset> => 'field name' || ['field',...] || condition sub{}

C<-change> => {set field values}

C<-error>, C<-warn> => sub{} -> 'text'

C<-widget> => {definitions for cgi field in the C<Utility Objects>} || html || sub{}->html
Field definitions may be used also:
C<-action> => 1;
C<-labels>, C<-values>;
C<-disabled>, C<-readonly>, C<-hidden>, C<-onchange> => boolean.

C<-widget0> => html above C<-widget> || sub{} -> html

C<-widget1> => html below C<-widget> || sub{} -> html


=back


=head1 SLOTS

=over

=item Slots


=item -action

	=> not exists 
	|| sub{}({self}, action, '-action'
		, {key field}, $_= key value, key pv
		, {field db name=>value,..}, prev return)
		-> success || {field db name => value}
	|| 'entryIns' || 'entryUpd' || 'entryDel' || 'entrySave'
	|| 1

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Action to execute after the form performance,
should be at the top of the form, before C<-key> fields.
May be several actions with the same C<-namecgi>.
1 - action button, it should to be at the bottom of the form.
For 'entrySave' action, 'entryUpd' is used when non-empty key value,
'entryDel' otherwise with non-empty previous key value.

See also C<-preact>.


=item -cgi

	=> undef || CGI object

(C<Utility Objects>)
L<CGI|CGI> utility object.
See also C<cgi> method.



=item -change

	=> not exists
	|| {field name => value || sub{}({self}, {field}, $_ =value),..}
	|| {value=>{field name => value,..},..}

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Change field values when this field changed.
This may be defined also as C<-values> or C<-labels>.



=item -computed

	=> not exists || value || [field name] || sub{}({self},{field}) -> value

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Computed field value evaluator.
See also C<-value>.


=item -cpcon

	=> undef || sub{}(self, arg,...) -> translated

(C<Error Processing and Echo>)
Translation sub{} for error messages and C<-echo> printout.
I.e. sub{$_[0]->C<cptran>('ansi'=>'oem',@_[1..$#_])}


=item -ctrl

	=> undef || ARS control struct

(C<Connection>)
ARS control struct from ARS::ars_Login()



=item -dbi

	=> undef || DBI object

=item -dbiconnect

	=> undef || connection string || [connect args]

(C<Utility Objects>)
L<DBI|DBI> utility object and connect specification to create it.
See also C<dbi> and C<dbiconnect> methods.



=item -die

	=> undef || sub{}

	=> set(-die => 'Carp' || 'CGI::Carp' || 'CGI::Carp qw(fatalsToBrowser warningsToBrowser)' || 'CGI::Die')

(C<Error Processing and Echo>)
Error die sub{}.
The most C<Methods> dies when error.
Call C<set>(C<-die> => 'Carp') to use L<Carp|Carp> module.
Call C<set>(C<-die> => 'CGI::Carp fatalsToBrowser') to use L<CGI::Carp|CGI/Carp> module.

See also C<-diemsg>, C<-warn>, C<-cpcon>


=item -diemsg

	=> undef || sub{}(string)

Message for C<-die>, alike L<CGI::Carp|CGI/Carp>::set_message()



=item -echo

	=> 0 | 1

(C<Error Processing and Echo>)
Echo printout switch.
Temporarilly may be used as an argument for specific methods.
alike C<query> and C<entryIns>.



=item -entryNo

	=> entryIns()

(C<ARS methods>)
The logical number of the entry inserted by C<entryIns>().



=item -error

	=> not exists
	|| sub{}({self}, {field}, $_ =field value, previous value) -> 'error text'
	|| 'error text for empty field'

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Field value error evaluator
See also C<-warn>.



=item -fpl

	=> [-formdb=>'...',-record=>'...'
	, {action field},.. {view/edit field},.., {button field},..}]

=item -fphc

	=> {'cgi field name' => {field definition},..}

=item -fphd

	=> {'db field name' => {field definition},..}

(C<CGI Form Presenter>)
Definitions of fields:
list of field in order to be evaluated,
field definitions by cgi names,
field definitions by ARS names.



=item -formdb

	=> 'db form name'

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
db form name, may be defined as a 
special C<-fpl> entry before field definitions.


=item -key

	=> => not exists || boolean

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Key database field?


=item -labels

	=> not exists || {value=>label,..} || {value=>{{-label=>label, field=>value,..},..}
	|| sub{}({self},{field},$_=value) -> {value=>label,..}

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Labels for the drop-down list box field.
If no C<-values>, this will be generated automatically.
Special {-name=>name, field=>value,..} form is to define C<-change>.
See also C<-values>.



=item -lbtran

=item -lbadd

	=> not exists || true || false (default)

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Translate list box value with C<-labels> if needed?
Add field value to C<-values> if not listed?



=item -lang

	=> '' || 'ARS language' || 'en_US' || 'ru_RU'...

(C<Connection>)
ARS language to use for session, i.e. 'en_US'



=item -master

	=> not exists || 'master field name'

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Name of the field containg value for this field.



=item -metadb

	=> not exists || 'ARS field name'

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
ARS field name to be used for field metadata:
C<-name>, C<-namelbl>, C<-labels>, C<-value>, etc.



=item -name

	=> not exists || 'common field name'

=item -namecgi

	=> not exists || 'cgi field name'

=item -namedb

	=> not exists || 'ARS field name'

=item -namelbl

	=> not exists || 'field label'

=item -namecmt

	=> not exists || 'comment text'

=item -namehtml

	=> not exists || sub{}(self, {field}, 'widget html') -> 'label html'

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Field names, label, comment text.
If C<-name> exists, it's value may be used as C<-namedb>,
and escaped value may be used as C<-namecgi>.


=item -maxRetrieve

	=> 0 || number of rows

(C<ARS methods>)
Max number of rows to retrieve from ARS server with C<query> method.


=item -meta

	=> {...}

(C<Metadata>)
Forms metadata from ARS server:

{formName}->{-fields}->{fieldName}=>{}, 

{formName}->{-fldids}->{fieldId}=>{}.

Futher data model is directly given from ARS::ars_GetFieldTable()/ARS::ars_GetField()
excluding C<-metax>.

Additional parameters may be:
'fieldLbl' => label, 'fieldLblc' => label cmt


=item -metaid

	=> {fieldId => {fieldName=>'name',FieldId=>id, strIn|strOut=>sub{}},...}

=item -metadn

	=> {fieldName => {fieldName=>'name',FieldId=>id, strIn|strOut=>sub{}},...}

(C<Metadata>)
Commonly used fields with common names and value translation.
Data translation sub{}s may be specified as

'strOut'|'strIn' => sub(self,form,{field},$_=value){} -> translated value.

This sub{}s may use C<strOut>() and C<strIn> methods.


=item -metax 

	=> ['displayInstanceList','permissions']

(C<Metadata>)
Field parameters to exclude from C<-meta> to decrease memory usage.


=item -meta-min

(C<Metadata>)

Used by C<arsmetamin> internally.


=item -meta-sql

	=> undef || {SQL Data Store metadata}

(C<Metadata>, C<SQL Data Store Methods>, C<Variable files>)
SQL Data Store metadata loaded or refreshed by C<arsmetasql>()/C<sqlname>():

{tableName}->{-cols}->{sqlName}=>{fieldName, sqlName,...}

{tableName}->{-fields}->{fieldName}=>sqlName

{tableName}->{-ids}->{fieldId}=>sqlName

{-forms}->{formName}->{tableName}


=item -preact

	=> not exists
	|| sub{}({self}, action, '-preact'
		, {key field}, $_= key value, key pv
		, {field db name=>value,..})
		-> success || {field db name => value}
	|| 'vfentry' || 'vfhash' || 'entry' || 'entryNew'

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Action to execute before the form performance,
should be at the top of the form, before C<-key> fields.
May be several actions with the same C<-namecgi>.
Alternative key field name may be passed as L<CGI|CGI>->param(action-name).
See alco C<-action>.


=item -pswd

	=> undef || ''

(C<Connection>)
ARS password string to login with


=item -record 

	=> 'record name' || 'nameRowNumber'

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Record name, if several records in screen, 
may be defined as a special C<-fpl> entry after C<-formdb> entry.
Record name may be followed by row number.


=item -reset

	=> not exists || 'field name' || ['field name',..] || sub{}({self}, {field})

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Condition to reset field value.
If C<-values> and field value unfound, it will be reset also.


=item -schema

	=> undef || [form name, form name...]

(C<Metadata>)
ARS forms or schemas to use.
Metadata will be loaded to C<-meta> and may be cached with C<vfname>(C<-meta>)
if C<-schgen>.


=item -schfdo

	=> 0 || 1

(C<Metadata>)
Include display only fields (AR_FIELD_OPTION_DISPLAY) into schema.



=item C<-schgen> 

	=> 1 || 0 
	|| 2 || 3 || [schema,...]

(C<Metadata>)
Cache metadata from ARS server using C<vfname>(C<-meta>)?
Or each session get metadata from ARS server.

	0 - get metadata from server, do not use cache file.
	1 - generate cache file if not exists, else load this file.
	2 - renew schema definitions using timestamps.
	3 - renew schema always.
	[schema,...] - list of schemas to renew.


=item -smtp

	=> undef || Net::SMTP object

=item -smtphost

	=> undef || SMTP host name


(C<Utility Objects>)
L<Net::SMTP|Net/SMTP> utility object and connect specification to create it.
See also C<smtp> and C<smtpconnect> methods.


=item -sqlname

	=> undef || sub{}(self, ARS name) -> SQL name

(C<SQL Data Store Methods>)
sub{} to escape ARS name to the SQL name, 
may be used instead of C<-sqlntbl> and C<-sqlncol>.
See also C<-sqlninc>.
See 'sub sqlnesc' in the source code as an example.


=item -sqlncol

	=> undef || sub{}(self, ARS field name) -> SQL col name

(C<SQL Data Store Methods>)
sub{} to escape ARS field name to the SQL column name, see also C<-sqlntbl>, C<-sqlninc>.
See 'sub sqlnesc' in the source code as an example.


=item -sqlninc

	=> undef || sub{}(self, SQL name) -> SQL name incremented

(C<SQL Data Store Methods>)
sub{} to increment SQL name, used after C<-sqlname>/C<-sqlntbl>/C<-sqlncol>
when the same SQL name already exists.
See 'sub sqlninc' in the source code as an example.


=item -sqlntbl

	=> undef || sub{}(self, ARS form name) -> SQL table name


(C<SQL Data Store Methods>)
sub{} to escape ARS form name to the SQL table name, see also C<-sqlncol>, C<-sqlninc>.
See 'sub sqlnesc' in the source code as an example.


=item -sqlschema

	=> undef || SQL schema name

(C<SQL Data Store Methods>)
SQL schema name for C<dbidsmetasync>(), C<dbidsrpl>(), C<dbidsquery>().


=item -storable

=item -meta-storable

=item <-vfname>-storable

	=> 1 || 0

(C<Variable files>)
Use L<Storable|Storable> module for variable files, metadata file, or another particular file?
Or L<Data::Dumper|Data/Dumper> will be used.
See also C<vstore>().



=item -srv

	=> undef || 'ARS server name'

(C<Connection>)
ARS server name to connect


=item -strFields

	=> 1 || 0 || 2

(C<ARS methods>)
Translate ARS field values using metadata and conversion sub{}s.
1 - using 'enumLimits' and C<strtime>/C<timestr>('yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss'), 
2 - using at first localisation metadata for enum fields ('fieldLbvl').



=item -undef

	=> not exists || value 

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Field value to be treated as undef or null for database.
See also C<-value>.



=item -used

	=> not exists == 1 || boolean || 'field name' || ['field name',..] 
	|| sub{}({self}, {field})

=item -unused

	=> not exists == 0 || boolean || 'field name' || ['field name',..]
	|| sub{}({self}, {field})

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Condition to use or unuse field in the screen and actions.


=item -usr

	=> undef || 'ARS user name'

(C<Connection>)
ARS user name to login under



=item -value

	=> not exists || value || [field name] || sub{}({self},{field}) -> value

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Default field value or field value evaluator.
See also C<-computed>.



=item -values

	=> not exists || [value,..] || [{-name=>name, field=>value,..},..]
	|| sub{}({self},{field},$_=value) -> [value,..]

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Values for the drop-down list box field
Special {-name=>name, field=>value,..} form is to define C<-change>.
See also C<-labels>.



=item -vfbase

	=> 'script file path name-' || 'base file path name' || 'directory path/'

(C<Variable files>)
Variable files base path name, used by C<vfstore>(), C<vfload>(), C<vfname>().
Default is formed from script file name without extensions and with '-' added.


=item -vfname 

	=> not exists || '-slotName'

=item -vfrenew

	=> not exists || boolean

=item -vfedit

	=> not exists || boolean

=item -vftran

	=> not exists || boolean

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Short name of the C<Variable File>
to read record from with C<-action>=>'vfentry' or C<-action>=>'vfhash';
or to renew or update after C<-action>=>'entryIns' || 'entryUpd' || 'entryDel'
May be used with C<-action> or C<-key> field.

C<-vfrenew> - renew variable file after 'entryIns' || 'entryUpd' || 'entryDel'

C<-vfedit> - update variable file after 'entryIns' || 'entryUpd' || 'entryDel'

C<-vftran> - translate value with C<-labels> for variable file


=item -warn

	=> undef

(C<Error Processing and Echo>)
Error warn sub{}.
Call C<set>(C<-die> => 'Carp') to use L<Carp|Carp> module,
or C<set>(C<-die> => 'CGI::Carp') to use L<CGI::Carp|CGI/Carp> module.
See also C<-cpcon>.


=item -warn

	=> not exists
	|| sub{}({self}, {field}, $_ =field value, previous value) -> 'warning text'
	|| 'warning text for empty field'

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Field value warning evaluator.
See also C<-error>.



=item -warnmsg

	=> undef || sub{}(string)

Message for C<-warn>, alike C<-diemsg>.



=item -widget

	=> not exists || undef == skip || 'html'
	|| sub{}({self}, {field}, value, previous value) -> html
	|| {option=>value,..}

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
Definition of html field to display (C<Utility Objects>):

	not exists - use default widget,
	undef - field not included in form,
	'html' - html to display,
		hidden field with previous value added if '-namecgi'
	sub{} -> html to display,...
	{option=>value,..} - parameters for 'cgi...' or 'CGI' field

Field definitions may be used also to generate default widget:
C<-action> => 1;
C<-labels>, C<-values>;
C<-disabled>, C<-readonly>, C<-hidden>, C<-onchange> => boolean.



=item -widget0

=item -widget1

	=> not exists || 'html'
	|| sub{}({self}, {field}, value, previous value) -> html

(C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>)
html to display above and below C<-widget>



=back



=head1 METHODS

=over

=item Methods



=item ars_errstr () -> $ARS::ars_errstr

(C<Error Processing and Echo>)
Last ARS error.


=item arsmeta (-param => value,...)

(C<Metadata>)
Load/refresh ARS metadata (C<vfload>/C<vfstore>(C<-meta>), C<-metadn>, C<-metaid>).
Called from C<connect>.
May be called without C<connect> if metadata file exists.
See also C<arsmetamin>.


=item arsmetamin (-param => value,...)

(C<Metadata>)
Refresh minimal ARS metadata set (C<vfstore>(C<-meta-min>)) after C<connect>/C<arsmeta> call.
Load minimal ARS metadata instead of or after C<connect>/C<arsmeta> call.
Loading of minimal metadata set is faster then loading all metadata with C<arsmeta>.
Minimal metadata set includes explicit 'enumLimits' and 'time' fields.

Synopsis: Refreshing C<-meta-min>:

	$s->set(-schgen =>3);
	$s->connect();
	$s->arsmetamin();


=item arsmetasql (-param => value,...)

(C<Metadata>, C<SQL Data Store Methods>)

Load SQL Data Store metadata or refresh this from ARS metadata after C<connect>/C<arsmeta> call.
The SQL Data Store is intended for data replicated from ARS using C<dbidsrpl>() calls.
Database table and column names are escaped ARS form and field names.
Metadata is stored in C<-meta-sql> variable file.

Synopsis: Refreshing C<-meta-sql>:

	$s->set(-schgen =>3);
	$s->connect();
	$s->dbi();
	$s->arsmetasql();
	$s->dbidsmetasync();

See also C<sqlname>(), C<dbidsmetasync>(), C<dbidsrpl>(), C<dbidsquery>()


=item arsquot (string) -> escaped and quoted for ARS

Quote and escape string for ARS.
See also C<strquot>/C<strquot2>



=item AUTOLOAD ()

(C<ARS methods>)
Use object->arsXXX() syntax for ARS:ars_XXX(ctrl,...) calls.



=item cfpaction ({action} || 'action', '-preact'||'-action', {key field}) -> success

(C<CGI Form Presenter>)
Action evaluator, called from C<cfprun>(),
may be called from C<-action> or C<-preact> sub{}.


=item cfpl ('field name' || {field definition}) -> [possible field values]

(C<CGI Form Presenter>)
List of C<-values> of the field, may be used in sub{}s executed by C<cfprun>.


=item cfpp ('field name' || {field definition}) -> previous field value

(C<CGI Form Presenter>)
Previous value of the field, may be used in sub{}s executed by C<cfprun>.


=item cfprun (? msg sub{}(self, 'label', 'comment'), ? form row sub{}(self, {field}, 'html'), ? 'form start html', ? 'form end html') -> success

(C<CGI Form Presenter>)
Evaluate C<-fpl> and present html form with actions.
The order of the fields is important, it is preferred to refer from
the field definition to previous fields, not to subsequent.


=item cfpv ('field name' || {field definition}) -> current field value

(C<CGI Form Presenter>)
Current value of the field, may be used in sub{}s executed by C<cfprun>.


=item cfpvv ('field name' || {field definition}) -> current or default field value

(C<CGI Form Presenter>)
Current or default value of the field, may be used in sub{}s executed by C<cfprun>.



=item C<cgi> () -> CGI object

=item C<cgi> (CGI->new args) -> CGI object

(C<Utility Objects>)
Access to L<CGI|CGI> object in C<-cgi>.
It will be automatically created with C<cgiconnect>() if not exists.



=item cgiconnect (CGI args) -> CGI object

(C<Utility Objects>)
Connect to L<CGI|CGI>.



=item cgiddlb (-name=>name, ?-title=>comment, ?-values=>[values], ?-labels=>{value=>display,..}, ?-default=>value, ?-override=>bool,...) -> drop-down list box HTML

(C<Utility Objects>)
Generate drop-down list box HTML using L<CGI|CGI> widgets.
This is alike C<cgiselect>, but more complex.

 -strict=> - disable text editing, allow only to choose value from list



=item cgiesc (string) -> escaped string

(C<Utility Objects>)
Escape string to HTML using L<CGI|CGI>->escapeHTML(@_)



=item cgitfrm (?-table=>{table attrs}, ?-tr=>{tr attrs}, ?-td=>{...}, ?-th=>{...}, [cell value,...],...) -> HTML

(C<Utility Objects>)
Generate simple HTML form in table layout using L<CGI|CGI>->start_form(),
L<CGI|CGI>->table(), L<CGI|CGI>->end_form().
'th' tag will be used for simple strings as usual labels, 'td' tag - for strings started with HTML tags.



=item cgipar() -> parameters

=item cgipar(name) -> value

=item cgipar(name, value)

(C<Utility Objects>)
Get or set L<CGI|CGI> parameter - L<CGI|CGI>->param(@_)



=item cgiselect (-name=>name, ?-title=>comment, ?-values=>[values], ?-labels=>{value=>display,..}, ?-default=>value, ?-override=>bool,...) -> selection HTML field

(C<Utility Objects>)
Generate selection field HTML using L<CGI|CGI>->popup_menu(@_)

 -onchange=>1 - reload form when value changed



=item cgistring (-name=>name, ?-title=>comment, ?-default=>value, ?-override=>bool, ?-size=>number, ?-maxlength=>number,...) -> text HTML field

(C<Utility Objects>)
Generate text field HTML using L<CGI|CGI>->textfield(@_)



=item cgitext(-name=>name, ?-title=>comment, ?-default=>value, ?-override=>bool, ?-rows=>number, ?-columns=>number,...) -> textarea HTML field

(C<Utility Objects>)
Generate HTML textarea field using L<CGI|CGI>->textarea(@_)



=item connect (-param => value,...) -> connected


(C<Connection>)
Connect to ARS server with ARS::ars_Login()
or verify existed connection with ARS::ars_VerifyUser().
Load metadata (C<vfload>/C<vfstore>(C<-meta>), C<-metadn>, C<-metaid>).



=item cpcon (string,...) -> translated string,...

(C<Error Processing and Echo>)
Translate strings to console codepage using C<-cptran>.



=item cptran (fromCP, toCP, string,...) -> translated string,...

(C<Utility Methods>)
Translate strings between codepages using L<Encode|Encode>.



=item dbi() -> DBI object

(C<Utility Objects>)
Access to L<DBI|DBI> object. C<dbiconnect> will be used if empty C<-dbi>.


=item dbiconnect (?-dbiconnect=> connection string || [DBI->connect args]) -> DBI object

(C<Utility Objects>)
Connect to L<DBI|DBI> database using C<-dbiconnect>.


=item dbido (dbi do args, , ?-echo=>1) -> dbi do result


(C<Utility Objects>)
Execute L<DBI|DBI> 'do' using C<dbi>.
Use -echo=>1 to output command to STDOUT.



=item dbidsmetasync (-echo => 0 || 1)

(C<Metadata>, C<SQL Data Store Methods>)

Sync SQL Data Store schema with metadata generated by C<arsmetasql>().
Uses C<dbi>(), C<-meta-sql>, C<-sqlschema>.
Calls C<dbido>('CREATE TABLE...') and C<dbido>('ALTER TABLE...').



=item dbidsrpl (-param => value)

(C<SQL Data Store Methods>)

Replicate ARS data to the SQL Data Store.
Uses C<dbi>(), C<-meta-sql>, C<-sqlschema>.
Parameters:

-echo => undef || 0 || 1

-form => ARS form name

-fields => undef || '*' || fields to replicate, alike C<query>(-fields)

-query => undef || ARS query string

-filter => undef || filter sub{}(self, {args}, {-meta-sql}->{tableName}, {ARS record}, {Data Store record}) -> allow

-lim_rf => undef || max number of records read from ARS, C<query>(-limit).
The number of the records fetched really may be incremented by counting timestamps duplicated.
Without timestamps, additional queries will be invoked when '-lim_rf' records fetched.

-lim_or => undef || max number of 'OR keyField=keyValue' pairs

-pk => undef || primary key ARS field name, default is obtained from C<-meta-sql>

-timestamp => undef || 0 || 'Modified Date' timestamp ARS field name, default is obtained from C<-meta-sql>

-ckpush => undef || 1 || 0 - insert, update, delete ARS records according to '_arsobject_insert', '_arsobject_update', '_arsobject_delete' column values.

-ckdel => undef || 0 || 1 - check records deleted from ARS and replicate deletions to the Data Store,
this is expensive and slow, so default if off.

-ckupd => undef || 1 || 0 - check and replicate updates from ARS to the Data Store,
based on timestamps of records if availeble

-unused => undef || SQL where clause part to delete unused records from Data Store table. "ARS field name"s and "ARS form name"s may be used.

-sleep => undef || seconds to L<perlfunc::sleep|perlfunc> between calls to ARS.



=item dbidsquery (-param => value) -> ({fieldName => fieldValue,...},...)

(C<SQL Data Store Methods>)

Query data from SQL Data Store.
Uses C<dbi>(), C<-meta-sql>, C<-sqlschema>.
Any C<dbi>() method may be used for SQL Data Store, 
but C<dbidsquery> understands "ARS form name"s and "ARS field name"s
in addition to "sql table name"s and "sql column name"s.
Records are returned as hash refs with ARS field names available,
otherwise SQL column names.
Parameters:

-echo => undef || 0 || 1

-form => ARS form name

-fields => undef || '*' || 'SQL SELECT clause' || [fieldName ||fieldId ||colName,...].
Empty value requests all fields, '*' - all fields or columns.

-query => undef || SQL WHERE clause

-filter => undef || filter sub{}(self, {fieldName => fieldValue,...}) -> allow

-order => [fieldName||fieldId => 1||2,... colName||colNumber => 'asc'||'desc',...] || 'SQL ORDER BY clause'

-undefs => undef || 1 || 0 - include undefined values to records returned

"ARS form name", "ARS field name", "ARS form name"."ARS field name" may be used
in '-fields' and '-query'.


=item dbierrstr () -> dbi->errstr

(C<Error Processing and Echo>)
Last L<DBI|DBI> error, <dbi>->errstr



=item dbiquery (dbi query args, ?-echo=>1) -> dbi cursor object

(C<Utility Objects>)
Query L<DBI|DBI> database using C<dbi>, 'prepare', 'execute'.
Use -echo=>1 to output command to STDOUT.



=item dscmp (data1, data2) -> cmp

(C<Utility Methods>)
Compare two data structures alike L<cmp|perlop>.



=item dsdump (data structure) -> dump string

(C<Utility Methods>)
Stringify any data structure using L<Data::Dumper|Data/Dumper>.
This string may be loaded back with C<dsparse>().



=item dsmerge (array ref,...) -> [merged array]

=item dsmerge (hash ref,...) -> {merged hash}

(C<Utility Methods>)
Sequentally assign elements of data structures given to result data structure.



=item dsparse (perl string) -> data structure

(C<Utility Methods>)
Convert C<dsdump>ed string to data structure.



=item dsquot (data structure) -> stringified

=item dsquot1 (data structure) -> stringified, defined elements only

(C<Utility Methods>)
Quote (stringify) any data structure to human readable form.



=item dsunique (item,...) -> (unique items)

(C<Utility Methods>)
Find unique items in the list given.



=item entry (-form=>name, -id=>entryId,...) -> {entry}

(C<ARS methods>)
Get record from ARS using ARS::ars_GetEntry().

Parameters:

-form | -from | -schema => schema or form name

-id => entryId

-fields => [internalId | fieldName,...]

-for => {} # steady hash to store each entry fetched

-echo=>1 # output command to STDOUT



=item entryBLOB (-form=>form, -id=>entryId, -field=>fieldId|fieldName) -> data

=item entryBLOB (..., -set=>data) -> id

=item entryBLOB (..., -file=>path, ?-set=>1) -> id


(C<ARS methods>)
Retrieve BLOB field using ARS::ars_GetEntryBLOB()
or update BLOB field using C<entryUpd>().
Parameters:

-form | -schema | -from | -into  => schema or form name

-id=>entryId

-echo=>1 # output command to STDOUT

-field=>fieldId | fieldName

-file=>path, -set=>boolean # when using file for BLOB field data

-set=>data # when updating BLOB field from scalar data



=item entryDel (-form=>form, -id=>entryId, ?-echo=>1) -> id

(C<ARS methods>)
Delete record into ARS using ARS::ars_DeleteEntry().
Parameters:

-form | -into | -schema => schema or form name

-id=>entryId

-echo=>1 # output command to STDOUT



=item entryDif ({old field => value,...}, {new field => value,...}, ?exclude empty) -> {values to update} | undef

(C<ARS methods>)
Distinguish the difference between two hashes of field => value.
Returns undef when no difference.



=item entryIns (-form=>form, ?-echo=>1, field => value,...) -> id | self

(C<ARS methods>)
Insert new record into ARS using ARS::ars_CreateEntry().
Field names are translated to ids using C<-metadn>/C<-meta>.
Field values are translated with C<strIn> when C<-strFields>.

Specially for 'HPD:Help Desk': 'Incident Number' value will be generated if it is 1.

Parameters:

-form | -into | -schema => schema or form name

-echo=>1 # output command to STDOUT

field === internalId | fieldName



=item entryNew (-form=>form, field=>value,...) -> {field=>value,...}

(C<ARS methods>)
Form field => value hash for a new ARS record using values given and default values in C<-meta>.
This may be not needed, C<entryIns> may be sufficient.
Field names are translated to ids using C<-metadn>/C<-meta>.
Field values are translated with C<strOut> when C<-strFields>.

Specially for 'HPD:Help Desk': 'Incident Number' value will be generated if it is 1.




=item entryUpd (-form=>form, -id=>entryId, ?-echo=>1, field=>value,...) -> id

(C<ARS methods>)
Update record into ARS using ARS::ars_SetEntry().
Field names are translated to ids using C<-metadn>/C<-meta>.
Field values are translated with C<strIn> when C<-strFields>.
Parameters:

-form | -into | -schema => schema or form name

-id=>entryId

-echo=>1 # output command to STDOUT

field === internalId | fieldName



=item fdirls (?-opt, path, ? filter sub{}(self, path, $_ =entry)) -> (entry,...)

=item fdirls (..., []) -> [entry,...]

(C<Utility Methods>)
List directory contents.



=item fload (?-opt, filename) -> content

(C<Utility Methods>)
Load data from file.
Options: '-b' - L<binmode|perlfunc>.
See also C<fstore>.



=item fopen (?-opt, filename) -> IO::File object

(C<Utility Methods>)
Open file with L<IO::File|IO/File> object.
Options: '-b' - L<binmode|perlfunc>.
See also C<fload>, C<fstore>.



=item fstore (?-opt, filename, string,...) -> success

(C<Utility Methods>)
Store strings to file.
Options: '-b' - L<binmode|perlfunc>.
Filename may be started with '>>' to add data to file.
See also C<fload>.




=item lsflds (additional field properties) -> list of field descriptions

(C<Metadata>)
List field descriptions from C<-meta>.
May be useful when scripting.
Or set C<-storable> => 0 and view C<vfname>(C<-meta>) file.



=item new (param => value,...) -> ARSObject

(C<Creation and Configuration>)
Create ARSObject.



=item query (-form => schema name, -where => condition,...) -> list of records

=item query (..., -for => sub(self, form, id|string, ?{record}){die "last\n", die "next\n"}) -> self

(C<ARS methods>)
Query records from ARS.

Field names are translated to ids using C<-metadn>/C<-meta>.

Result set values are translated with C<strOut> when C<-strFields>.

Values in the query condition should be converted to ARS representation explicitly:
strings should be quoted with C<arsquot>(), dates - converted with C<timestr>().

Field names or ids in the query condition should be enclosed in ' single quotes.

Parameters:

-form | -from | -schema => schema or form name

-fields =>undef
# if '-fields' parameter omited, list of record IDs will be returned as a result set.

-fields => [{fieldId=>1, columnWidth=>number, separator=>"\t"} | {fieldName=>name, width=>number} | {field=>name|id, width=>number},...]
# result set is strings up to 128 bytes, ARS::ars_GetListEntry() used.

-fields => [fieldId | fieldName,...]
# result set is hash refs for each record, ARS::ars_GetListEntryWithFields() used.

-fields => '*' | '*-$' | 1, -xfields=>sub{}(self, field) || [fieldName| fieldId,...]
# result set is hash refs for each record, ARS::ars_GetListEntryWithFields() used.
# use '*-$' to excude currency and attachment fields.
# use '*-f' to excude attachment fields.

-fetch => '*' | 1 | [fieldId|fieldName,...]
# result set is hash refs for each record, ars_GetEntry() used for each row, this is slow.

-where | -query => search condition string
# Syntax:
'fieldId' || 'fieldName' - fields;
"string value" - strings;
digits - numeric value, number of seconds as date value;
strIn(form, fieldName, value) - to encode value for '-where'

-order | -sort => [fieldId | fieldName => (1||2) | ('asc'|'desc'),...]
# sort order, 1 - asc, 2 - desc

-first ||-start => firstRetrieve # ARS::ars_GetListEntry() parameter

-limit ||-max => maxRetrieve # ARS::ars_GetListEntry() parameter

-for ||-foreach => sub(self, form, id|string, ?{record}){die "last\n", die "next\n"} -> self
# iterator sub{} for each row

-echo => 1
# output query and details to STDOUT



=item schema () -> {schemaName => {metadata},...}

=item schema (schema name) -> {schema metadata} || undef

=item schfld (schema) -> {fieldName=>{field metadata},...}

=item schfld (schema, field name | meta) -> {field metadata} || undef

=item schid (schema, field '-metaid' | id) -> {fieldName=>'name', FieldId=>id}

=item schdn (schema, field '-metadn' | name) -> {fieldName=>'name', FieldId=>id}

=item schvals (schema, field name | id | meta) -> [itemNumber,...] || undef

=item schlbls (schema, field name | id | meta) -> {itemNumber => itemName,...} || undef

=item schlblsl (schema, field name | id | meta) -> {itemNumber => localised itemName,...} || undef

(C<Metadata>)
Access to ARS metadata loaded by C<connect>, C<arsmeta>, C<arsmetamin>.

 

=item set (param => value,...) -> self

=item set (param) -> value

(C<Creation and Configuration>)
Configure ARSObject.



=item smtp() -> Net::SMTP object

(C<Utility Objects>)
Access to L<Net::SMTP|Net/SMTP> object. 
C<smtpconnect> will be used if empty C<-smtp>.



=item smtpconnect (?-smtphost=> name) -> Net::SMTP object

(C<Utility Objects>)
Connect to L<Net::SMTP|Net/SMTP> host using C<-smtphost>.



=item smtpsend (-from || -sender => name, -to || -recipient => [name,...], -data => smtp data || (-subject => string, -text || -html => text)) -> Net::SMTP::dataend

(C<Utility Objects>)
Send L<Net::SMTP|Net/SMTP> e-mail using C<smtp>.



=item soon (minutes number || sub{}, logfile ||'', run command || [command line] || sub{}, soon command || [command line] || [])

=item soon (minutes number || sub{}, logfile ||'', run command || [command line] || sub{})

=item soon (minutes number || sub{}, logfile ||'', '', soon command || [command line])

Execute the script periodically, run command immediately, soon command after delay specified.
Log file name may be full file name, else C<vfname>(file name) will be used.
If run command is empty, soon command will be scheduled.
If soon command is empty, sleep(minutes*60) will be used, otherwise 'at' MSWin32 scheduling command.
If !defined(minutes), soon command will be deleted from schedule and run command will be executed once.



=item sqlname (formName, ?fieldName, ?forceMetaUpd) -> sql name

(C<Metadata>, C<SQL Data Store Methods>)

Get SQL Data Store table or column name converted from ARS form and field name.
Used by C<arsmetasql>().
Uses C<-sqlname>, C<-sqlntbl>, C<-sqlncol>, C<-sqlninc> settings.



=item strIn (schema, fieldId | fieldName | field metadata, value) -> converted

(C<ARS methods>)
Convert value for ARS internal field value representation.
Called automatically when C<-strFields>. 
Should be called explicitly from C<strIn> sub{} in C<-metadn>/C<-metaid>.
May need to be called explicitly forming C<query> condition.
See also C<strOut>, C<-strFields>.



=item strOut (schema, fieldId | fieldName | field metadata, fieldValue) -> converted

(C<ARS methods>)
Convert ARS field value for external representation.
Called automatically when C<-strFields>. 
Should be called explicitly from C<strOut> sub{} in C<-metadn>/C<-metaid>
and when parsing strings result from C<query>.
See also C<strIn>, C<-strFields>.



=item strquot (string) -> escaped and quoted with ''

=item strquot2 (string) -> escaped and quoted with ""

(C<Utility Methods>)
Quote and escape string.
See also C<arsquot>



=item strtime (?mask, L<time|perlfunc> ||L<localtime|perlfunc> ||L<gmtime|perlfunc>) -> stringified

(C<Utility Methods>)
Stringify time value by mask.
Default mask is 'yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss' (ISO).
L<POSIX::strftime|POSIX> uses different mask agreement.
See also C<timestr>.


=item timeadd (seconds, add years, ?months, ?days, ?hours, ?minutes, ?seconds) -> seconds incremented

(C<Utility Methods>)
Add values given to time given. Calculation via L<POSIX::mktime|POSIX>.



=item timestr (?mask, stringified time) -> seconds

(C<Utility Methods>)
Convert stringified with C<strtime> time string to seconds form 
with L<POSIX::mktime|POSIX>



=item vfclear (-slotName) -> true

(C<Variable files>)
Clear data loaded from variables file by C<vfload>(-slotName).
Reset data buffers of C<vfdata>() and C<vfhash>().



=item vfdata (-slotName) -> data structure

=item vfdata (-slotName, index) -> numbered element of data array

=item vfdata (-slotName, filter sub{}(self, -slot, index, $_=elem)) -> [record,...]

(C<Variable files>)
Access to data of variables file.
Automatically C<fload>s it.
Data structure will be treated as an array ref when index or filter argument used.



=item vfdistinct (-slotName, keyName) -> [value,...]

=item vfdistinct (-slotName, keyName, filter sub{}(self, -slot, keyName, keyValue, $_=elem)) -> [value,...]

(C<Variable files>)
Distinct values from C<vfdata>,
alike [sort keys %{C<vfhash>(-slotName, keyName)}].
Each element of C<vfdata>(-slotName) should be a hash with 'keyName' element.



=item vfhash (-slotName, keyName) -> {keyName=>{key => value},...}

=item vfhash (-slotName, keyName, keyValue) -> {key => value}

=item vfhash (-slotName, keyName, keyValue, key) -> value || undef if !ref(keyValue)

=item vfhash (-slotName, keyName, filter sub{}(self, -slot, keyName, keyValue, $_=elem)) -> {keyName=>{key => value},...}

(C<Variable files>)
Direct access to C<vfdata> using key name and value.
Each element of C<vfdata>(-slotName) array should be a hash with 'keyName' element.
C<vfdata> array will be automatically cached into hash "-slotName/keyName".



=item vfload (partial file name || -slotName) -> data structure

=item vfload (-slotName, ?create, ?renew ||renew period seconds) -> data structure

(C<Variable files>)
Load data structure from variables file using C<fload> and C<-storable>/C<dsparse>.
File absent may be created. 
File existed may be renewed immediatelly or if it is older then renew period.

If '-slotName' specified, this slot will contain loaded data structure.

If '-slotName-calc' => sub{}(self, -slotName) specified, file will not be used at all, 
data will be calculated on demand.

If '-slotName-load' => sub{}(self, -slotName) specified, it will be used to fill unexisted file.



=item vfname (partial name || -slotName) -> full var file path name in the filesystem

(C<Variable files>)
Convert partial file name to full, based on C<-vfbase>, for variables file.
Leading '-' will be excluded.



=item vfrenew (-slotName, ?renew period seconds) -> vfstore()/vfload()

(C<Variable files>)
Renew variables file using C<vfstore>() inside C<vfload>() with '-slotName-load' sub{}.
If no period or when period ==1 file will be renewed immediatelly.
Else file will be renewed only if it is older then period.



=item vfstore (partial file name, data structure) -> success

=item vfstore (-slotName) -> success

(C<Variable files>)
Store data to variables file using C<-storable>/C<dsdump> and C<fstore>.

If '-slotName' specified, this slot should contain data structure to be stored.

If '-slotName-storable' => switch specified, it will be used instead of C<-storable>.




=back


=head1 VERSION

=over

=head2 2013-02-05

Publishing 0.57 version


=head2 2012-05-16

Publishing 0.56 version


=head2 2012-04-24

Added field localisation metadata, see source code for 'fieldLbll' and 'fieldLbvl'.

Updated C<lsflds>().

Added C<schlblsl>().

Added C<-strFields> => 2 - translate ARS enum field values using at first
localisation metadata ('fieldLbvl').

Extended C<arsmetamin>() data with 'time' fields.

Added C<-metadb> to C<CGI Form Presenter - Field Definitions>.



=head2 2012-03-23

New C<SQL Data Store Methods>


=head2 2011-10-26

New C<entryBLOB>


=head2 2011-09-27

Publishing 0.55 version


=head2 2011-01-06

New C<arsmeta>, C<arsmetamin>.
Documented C<schema>.


=head2 2011-01-26

C<CGI Form Presenter> added.


=head2 2010-11-22

Publishing 0.54 version, with several enhancements and corrections.

New C<-diemsg>, C<-warnmsg>, C<fdirls>().

C<vfload> - increased performance of loading text file,
implemented text/binary format autodetection.


=head2 2010-10-09

Publishing 0.53 version, with several enhancements and corrections.



=head2 2010-08-25

C<strOut>() method may return original enum value when cannot translate it.

C<vfstore>()/C<vfload>() extended with '-slotName-storable' switch.


=head2 2010-08-20

C<query>(...,-fields=>'*',...) syntax added.


=head2 2010-07-01

Publishing 0.52 version, with several enhancements and corrections.



=head2 2010-06-08

Publishing 0.51 version, with several changes, enhancements and corrections.



=head2 2010-04-17

Publishing 0.50 version.
I have two prototype scripts using this module.


=head2 2010-03-30

Documentation file written


=head2 2010-03-24

Detached


=head2 2010-03-02

Started inside a script


=back



=head1 LICENSE

This is free software; 
you can use redistribute it and/or modify it 
under the same terms as Perl itself.



=head1 AUTHOR

Andrew V Makarow <makarow at mail.com>,
for Bank of Russia in Archangel




=cut


