=head1 NAME

Froody::Error::Standard - Documentation describing the standard errors

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This page describes the standard errors that you can get with Froody

=over

=item froody

Errors coming from withing the Froody system, normally because someone
hasn't declared everything right for a method, or there's a missing method
or something like that

=item froody.convert

Problem involving converting one Froody::Response to another.

=item froody.convert.nomethod

There's no method defined for this response, and we need it to do
the conversion of one response to another.

=item froody.convert.nostructure

There's no response specification for the method that this response uses
and we need it to do the conversion from one type of response to the other.

=item froody.invoke

Problem invoking a method

=item froody.invoke.badresponse

We dispatched the method okay, and everything's fine, apart from the fact
that we didn't get a valid Froody::Response back.  Ooops.

=item froody.invoke.noinvoker

There isn't an invoker defined for this method, and you tryed to invoke it.

=item froody.invoke.nomethod

No method name was passed to the dispatcher.  It's hard to dispatch without
one. We're not clairvoyant you know.

=item froody.invoke.nosuchmethod

You asked for a method that hasn't been registered with this repository.

=item froody.invoke.nosucherrortype 

You asked for a errortype that hasn't been registered with this repository.

=item froody.invoke.remote

Something went wrong on the remote end of the invokation.  This happens
when you're using Froody::Implementation::Remote and the remote server
returns something like a Server Error or a 404.

=item froody.response

Somehow the response has become corrupt internally (this should never happen,
but since we have a check for it, we have to define an error for it.)

=item froody.xml

Something went wrong with froody's xml parsing.  You probably did something
wrong in the XML spec.

=item froody.xml.invalid

We couldn't parse the XML from the string - i.e. XML::LibXML barfed on the
input.  I bet it wasn't valid XML.

=item froody.xml.nomethods

The XML spec you passed in didn't contain any methods.

=item perl

Errors coming from Perl code, i.e. nothing wrong with what the user
has done, but rather there's something wrong with the way the code
was written

=item perl.methodcall

There was a problem with a method call.

=item perl.methodcall.class

A method was called in object context when it was an instance method.

=item perl.methodcall.instance

A method was called in class context when it was an object method.

=item perl.methodcall.param

You called the method with invalid parameters

=item perl.methodcall.unimplemented

You called ab 'abstract' method that should have been overriden in a concrete base class

=item perl.use

There was a problem loading a class or requiring some code.

=back

=head1 BUGS

None known.

Please report any bugs you find via the CPAN RT system.
L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Froody>

=head1 AUTHOR

Copyright Fotango 2005.  All rights reserved.

Please see the main L<Froody> documentation for details of who has worked
on this project.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Froody::Error::Standard>, L<Froody::Response::Error>

=cut

1;