=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::XOP::Include - Represents one XOP node.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # See also SYNOPSIS of XML::Compile::XOP
  my $xop       = XML::Compile::XOP->new;
  my $xop_image = $xop->bytes($binary_image);
  my $answer    = $call->(image => $xop_image);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Represents one data-set which will be represented as separate (binary)
object during transport.  This can only be used on data fields which
are base64Binary.

YOU SHOULD NOT instantiate this kind of objects directly, but use the
L<XML::Compile::XOP|XML::Compile::XOP> method to create them.

The object is overloaded to produce the contained data when a scalar is
required, for instance when you call functions like "length".  This means
that, hopefully, the end-user does not see much of a difference between
data which is transported inline or packaged separately.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item XML::Compile::XOP::Include-E<gt>B<fromMime>($object)

Collect the data from a HTTP::Message object.

=item XML::Compile::XOP::Include-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

You have to specify either a C<file> or C<byte> source.  Otherwise, the
constructor will return C<undef>.

 -Option--Default
  bytes   undef
  cid     <required>
  file    undef
  type    <required>
  xmime   <required>
  xop     <required>

=over 2

=item bytes => STRING|SCALAR

Take the data from a STRING of reference.

=item cid => STRING

The Content-ID of the binary attachment.

=item file => FILENAME|FILEHANDLE

Take the data from the specified file.

=item type => MIMETYPE

The MIME-Type of the data.

=item xmime => VERSION

=item xop => VERSION

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<cid>()

Returns the Content-ID.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<content>( [$byref] )

Returns the content, when $byref (boolean) is true, then the value is
returned by reference.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<contentCharset>()

Returns the character set, as provided by the Content-Type header.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<contentType>()

Returns the media type included in the Content-Type header.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<string>()

Returns the content as string in Perl internal encoding.

=back

=head2 Processing

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<mimePart>( [$headers] )

Produce the message part which contains a normal mime representation
of a binary file.  You may provide an initial $headers (HTTP::Headers)
object, or an ARRAY of headers to instantiate such an object.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<write>($filename|$fh)

Write the content to the specified FILE.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<xmlNode>($document, $path, $tag)

The $document will be used to construct the node from.  The $path
is an indicator for the location of the node within the data
structure (used in error messages).  The $tag is the prefixed name
for the node to be created.

Returned is an XML node to be included in the output tree.

=back

=head1 OVERLOAD

=over 4

=item overload: B<"">

This object stringifies to its binary content.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-SOAP distribution version 3.21,
built on January 11, 2017. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile> .
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

