# no code
## no critic: TestingAndDebugging::RequireUseStrict
package Perinci::CmdLine::Manual::Explanation::ArgumentValidation; # just to make podweaver happy

# AUTHORITY
# DATE
our $DIST = 'Perinci-CmdLine'; # DIST
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Argument validation

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Perinci::CmdLine::Manual::Explanation::ArgumentValidation - Argument validation

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 1.913.0 of Perinci::CmdLine::Manual::Explanation::ArgumentValidation (from Perl distribution Perinci-CmdLine), released on 2021-12-03.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Argument validation is performed before passing the arguments to the function.
It includes: making sure required arguments (arguments with C<req> property set
to true) are specified, the values of specified arguments conforms to the
argument schema (C<schema> property, described in L<Sah> format), and argument
relation rules (in C<args_rels> property in the C<args> function metadata
property) are followed.

Arguments will be checked against their schemas for all arguments that are
specified by the user I<or> have a default value/rules in their schema, e.g.:

 # argument specification

 # this argument has a default clause in its schema
 foo => {
     schema => ['str*', default=>'on'],
     ...
 }

 # this argument has a default-value rule clause in its schema
 mod => {
     schema => ['perl::modname*', 'x.perl.default_value_rules'=>['Perl::this_mod']],
     ...
 }

=head1 FAQ

=head2 How to find out if an argument is set explicitly by the user or is getting a default value from the schema/argument specification?

Use the special argument C<-set_ARGNAME>.

=head2 How to get the original value on an argument sent by user before the argument is being coerced/filtered/given default value by the schema?

Use the special argument C<-orig_ARGNAME>.

=head2 How to get the default value of an argument from the schema/argument specifcation?

Use the special argument C<-default_ARGNAME>.

=head2 What's the difference between setting a default in the argument specification vs in the schema?

There are two ways to set a default value. The first one is via the C<default>
property in argument specification:

 # in the function metadata property...
 args => {
     foo => {
         schema => 'str*',
         default => 'on',
     },
     ...
 }

This means, if user does not specify the argument:

 # via CLI
 % progname

 # via wrapped function call
 funcname()

then the function will get a C<foo> key in its C<%args> automatically. As well
as C<-set_foo> set to false, C<-default_foo> set to C<on>. We know (from
C<-set_foo>) that C<foo> gets its value from the default and not from the user
explicitly setting it.

Another way is by setting default value in the schema's C<default> clause or
C<x.perl.default_value_rules> property (the latter allows dynamic default
values):

 # in the function metadata property...
 args => {
     bar => {
         schema => ['str*', default=>'on'],
         ...
     },
     baz => {
         schema => ['perl::modname*', 'x.perl.default_value_rules'=>['Perl::this_mod']],
         ...
     },
     ...
 }

This means that if the argument value is set to undefined value (C<undef>), it
will get set the default from schema during argument validation:

 # via CLI
 % progname --baz-json 'null'

 # via wrapped function call
 funcname(baz=>undef)

Function will receive C<bar> key in its C<%args> set to C<on>, C<baz> set to
e.g. C<"Some::Module"> instead of C<undef>. C<%args> will also contain
C<-set_bar> (false), C<-set_baz> (true), C<-orig_baz> (C<undef>) as well as
C<-default_bar> (C<on>) and C<-default_baz> (C<Some::Module>).

You can know from C<-set_bar> that the argument is set by default value and not
explicitly by user.

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Perinci-CmdLine>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Perinci-CmdLine>.

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTING


To contribute, you can send patches by email/via RT, or send pull requests on
GitHub.

Most of the time, you don't need to build the distribution yourself. You can
simply modify the code, then test via:

 % prove -l

If you want to build the distribution (e.g. to try to install it locally on your
system), you can install L<Dist::Zilla>,
L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>, and sometimes one or two other
Dist::Zilla plugin and/or Pod::Weaver::Plugin. Any additional steps required
beyond that are considered a bug and can be reported to me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2021, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015 by perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Perinci-CmdLine>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
