=pod

=head1 NAME

Dirbuster::Parser - Parse Dirbuster scan data with Perl

=head1 VERSION

This document describes Dirbuster::Parser version .02

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $dpx = new Dirbuster::Parser;

 my $parser = $dpx->parse_file('test1.xml');
    #a Dirbuster::Parser Object

 my @results = $parser->get_all_results();
    #an Array of Dirbuster::Parser::Result Objects
 
 foreach my $h ( grep($_->type eq 'Dir', $parser->get_all_results()) ) {
    print "Type: " . $h->type . "\n";
    print "Path: " . $h->path . "\n";
    print "Response Code: " . $h->response_code . "\n";
 }
 
I<For a full listing of methods see the documentation corresponding to each object.>

=head1 DESCRIPTION


=head1 OVERVIEW


 Dirbuster::Parser                         -- Core parser
 |
 +--Dirbuster::Parser::Session             -- Dirbuster scan session information
 |  
 +--Dirbuster::Parser::Target              -- General target information
 |  |
 |  |--Dirbuster::Parser::Target::Result   -- Result information
 |  |  |


=head1 METHODS

=head2 Dirbuster::Parser

The main idea behind the core modules is, you will first parse the scan data
then extract the information. Therefore, you should run parse_file then the you can use any of the subroutines of the objects.

=over 4

=item B<parse_file($xml_file)>

Parse a Dirbuster XML file. This subroutine returns a Dirbuster::Parser object containing the information from the XML.

=item B<get_session()>

Obtain the Dirbuster::Parser::Session object which contains the session scan information.

=item B<get_all_results()>

Obtain an Array of Dirbuster::Parser::Target::Result objects which contain file and directory information.

=back

=head2 Dirbuster::Parser::Target::Result

This object contains the information for a result

=over 4


=item B<type()>

Returns a string which contains the type (File or Dir)

=item B<response_code()>

Returns the response code from the request.

=item B<path()>

Returns the path.

=back 

=head1 EXAMPLES


Here is an example of parsing an XML file using Dirbuster::Parser:

 my $dpx = new Dirbuster::Parser;

 my $parser = $dpx->parse_file('test1.xml');

 print "Directories:\n";
 foreach my $h ( grep($_->type eq "Dir", $parser->get_all_results()) ) {
    print "Type: " . $h->type . "\n";
    print "Path: " . $h->path . "\n";
    print "Response Code: " . $h->response_code . "\n";
 }

 print "Files:\n";
 foreach my $h ( grep($_->type eq "File", $parser->get_all_results()) ) {
   print "Type: " . $h->type . "\n";
   print "Path: " . $h->path . "\n";
   print "Response Code: " . $h->response_code . "\n";
 }


=head1 SEE ALSO

 Dirbuster, XML::LibXML and Object::InsideOut
 
=head1 AUTHOR

Joshua "Jabra" Abraham, S<E<lt>jabra AT spl0it DOT orgE<gt>>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2009 Joshua D. Abraham. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut


