=head1 NAME

Imgur::API::Endpoint::Comment

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=over 4

Access to the imgur Comment API Endpoint. 

=back

=cut

=head1 METHODS
 

=head2 get

=over 2

Get information about a specific comment.

=back

B<Parameters>

=over 4


=item *
 C<comment> I<required>

Comment


=back


=head2 create

=over 2

Creates a new comment, returns the ID of the comment.

=back

B<Parameters>

=over 4


=item *
 C<comment> I<required>

The comment text, this is what will be displayed

=item *
 C<parent_id> I<optional>

The ID of the parent comment, this is an alternative method to create a reply.

=item *
 C<image_id> I<required>

The ID of the image in the gallery that you wish to comment on


=back


=head2 delete

=over 2

Delete a comment by the given id.

=back

B<Parameters>

=over 4


=item *
 C<comment> I<required>

Comment


=back


=head2 replies

=over 2

Get the comment with all of the replies for the comment.

=back

B<Parameters>

=over 4


=item *
 C<comment> I<required>

Comment


=back


=head2 replyCreate

=over 2

Create a reply for the given comment.

=back

B<Parameters>

=over 4


=item *
 C<image_id> I<required>

The ID of the image in the gallery that you wish to comment on

=item *
 C<comment> I<required>

The comment text, this is what will be displayed


=back


=head2 vote

=over 2

Vote on a comment. The {vote} variable can only be set as "up" or "down".

=back

B<Parameters>

=over 4


=item *
 C<vote> I<required>

Vote

=item *
 C<comment> I<required>

Comment


=back


=head2 report

=over 2

Report a comment for being inappropriate.

=back

B<Parameters>

=over 4


=item *
 C<2> I<required>



=item *
 C<reason> I<optional>

An integer representing the reason for the report
                            Value
                                    Description
                                1
                                    Doesn't belong on Imgur
                                2
                                    Spam
                                3
                                    Abusive
                                4
                                    Mature content not marked as mature
                                5
                                    Pornography

=item *
 C<1> I<required>



=item *
 C<comment> I<required>

Comment

=item *
 C<4> I<required>



=item *
 C<3> I<required>



=item *
 C<5> I<required>




=back


=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4 

https://api.imgur.com/endpoints/comment

=back

=cut
