# ABSTRACT: Catalog of Voting Methods and their Vote::Count Implementations

=pod

=head1 VERSION 2.04

=head1 NAME

Vote::Count::Catalog

=head1 Description

A catalog of common Vote Counting Systems and their implementation in Vote::Count.

=head1 Methods by Family

=head2 Borda Count

And other Methods which assign scores to choices by their ranking.

=over

=item *

Borda Count: core L<Vote::Count::Borda>

=item *

Nansen: I<needs example>

=item *

Baldwin: I<needs example>

=item *

STAR: L<Vote::Count::Method::STAR>

=back

=head2 Instant Runoff Voting

=over

=item *

Instant Runoff Voting: core L<Vote::Count::IRV>

=item *

Benham Condorcet IRV: L<Vote::Count::Method::CondorcetDropping|Vote::Count::Method::CondorcetDropping/Benham>

=item *

SmithSet IRV: L<Vote::Count::Method::CondorcetIRV>

=item *

BTR IRV: L<Vote::Count::IRV>

=back

=head2 PairWise

=head3 Non Condorcet Pairwise

=over

=item *

MinMax (Opposition) L<Vote::Count::Method::MinMax>

=back

=head3 Simple Condorcet

=over

=item *

Benham Condorcet IRV: L<Vote::Count::Method::CondorcetDropping|Vote::Count::Method::CondorcetDropping/Benham>

=item *

Simple Dropping: L<Vote::Count::Method::CondorcetDropping>

=item *

SmithSet IRV: L<Vote::Count::Method::CondorcetIRV>

=item *

MinMax (Winning Votes and Margin) L<Vote::Count::Method::MinMax>

=item *

BTR IRV: L<Vote::Count::IRV>

=back

=head3 Complex Condorcet

=over

=item *

Condorcet vs IRV: L<Vote::Count::Method::CondorcetVsIRV>

=item *

Tiedeman: I<unimplemented>

=item *

SSD: I<unimplemented>

=item *

Kemeny-Young: I<unimplemented>

=back

=head3 Redacting Condorcet

=over

=item *

Condorcet vs IRV: L<Vote::Count::Method::CondorcetVsIRV>

=back

=head3 Single Transferable Vote

=over

=item *

Weighted Inclusive Gregory (WIGM) L<Vote::Count::Method::WIGM>

=item *

Core Vote Charge (STV) Support L<Vote::Count::Charge>

=back

=head2 AUTHOR

John Karr (BRAINBUZ) brainbuz@cpan.org

=head2 CONTRIBUTORS

Copyright 2019, 2020 by John Karr (BRAINBUZ) brainbuz@cpan.org.

=head1 LICENSE

This module is released under the GNU Public License Version 3. See license file for details. For more information on this license visit http://fsf.org.

#FOOTER

=pod

BUG TRACKER

L<https://github.com/brainbuz/Vote-Count/issues>

AUTHOR

John Karr (BRAINBUZ) brainbuz@cpan.org

CONTRIBUTORS

Copyright 2019-2021 by John Karr (BRAINBUZ) brainbuz@cpan.org.

LICENSE

This module is released under the GNU Public License Version 3. See license file for details. For more information on this license visit L<http://fsf.org>.

SUPPORT

This software is provided as is, per the terms of the GNU Public License. Professional support and customisation services are available from the author.

=cut

