=head1 NAME

dev_release.cfg - Configuration file for the developer release tools

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Text file used to control the configuration of developer release tools

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The second-generation release manager tools introduced a more flexible approach
to system configuration in the form of a central file that manages the various
parameters that affect the overall system. Each line in the file is one of
three types:

=over

=item blank

Used for the sake of readability, to separate sections from each other.

=item a comment

Lines that start with the "#" character are treated as comments and ignored.

=item a key/value assignment

All lines of the form, "KEY=VALUE" are treated as assignment lines. The tag
up to the "=" sign is treated as the key name, and all characters from after
the (first) "=" to the end of the line are assigned as the value.

=head1 FILE CONTENTS

The following are the fields currently in use, and where applicable the default
value is shown:

=over

=item ACL_DIR (/home/idsweb/etc/acl)

The directory in which Access Control Lists (ACLs) are kept. If not specified
as an absolute path, then assumed to be relative to the home directory of the
user specified below in C<OWNER>.

=item PROJECT_ROOT (/opt/ims/htdocs)

This directory specifies the root directory under which project files are
checked-out for the B<populate> step.

=item STAGE_ROOT (/opt/ims/staging)

The directory root of the staging area used by projects prior to release.

=item EVENT_LOG (/opt/ims/htdocs/development-log.txt)

All tool actions record one line to this file, to act as a simple log of
activities.

=item CVSROOT (/opt/ims/repository)

This allows for the specification of the CVS base repository root. This is
in case the person running the tools has not already set the value in their
environment.

=item DEVHOST (webdev.nafohq.hp.com)

=item CVS (/opt/ims/bin/cvs)

Path to the base CVS utility B<cvs>. This is used to create the CVS interface
commands

=item TAR (/opt/ims/bin/tar)

Path to the UNIX B<tar> utility to use in creating archives. Soon to be
obsoleted by the Perl B<Archive::Tar> package.

=item FTP (/opt/ims/bin/ftp)

The path to the local B<ftp> application to use. Allows for configuration of
altername tools or versions of B<ftp> compiled with SOCKS support.

=item TOPICLIST (.topiclist)

This file is the internal topiclist file used by the tools. The topiclist is
used only to define the project name and owner for e-mail purposes.

=item BUILDLIST (.buildlist)

The buildlist file, used to determine automatic building of projects and
exlude release of specific directories or files (sourcecode).

=item WEBLIST (.weblist)

The internal weblist file, used to track the project manifest and modification
times of individual files.

=item RELEASE (.release)

The name of the internal release tracking file used by the tools. This file
marks when the last actual release was done of a given project.

=item HALTFILE_PREFIX (etc/halt-)

This value is used in the construction of the path to a potential "haltfile"
for a given tool. If a haltfile exists for a tool, then execution of that
tool is blocked until the halt is removed. If the file has length other than
zero, then the contents are displayed on the terminal as an informative
message to the user. If this value is not an absolute path, it is assumed to
be relative to the home directory of the user specified in C<OWNER>.

=item OWNER (idsweb)

This defines the user ID that internal and system files should be owned by.
This should be the ID under which all the tools run, so that access to the
files is always a given.

=item GROUP (idsweb)

As above, this defines a group ID for ownership of any systems files or
internal files.

=item HTTP_PROXY (http://web-proxy:8088)

When HTTP file upload (the default) is used to send a release package to a
server, this value is used as the proxy for the connection request. Without
this it would not be possible to make the connections beyond the corporate
firewall.

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

None (yet).

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<dev_rls_tool>, L<populate>, L<stage>, L<release>

=head1 AUTHOR

Randy J. Ray <randyr@nafohq.hp.com>

=head1 ENHANCEMENTS

Kevin Greene

=cut
