=head1 NAME

Pg::SQL::PrettyPrinter - Pretty printing SQL queries

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Formats SQL queries "nicely". To do so it first has to parse it, and for this
it's using microservice available over HTTP:
L<https://gitlab.com/depesz/pg-query-parser-microservice>.

Usage example:

    use Pg::SQL::PrettyPrinter;

    my $pp = Pg::SQL::PrettyPrinter->new(
        'service' => 'http://127.0.0.1:15283/',
        'sql' => 'select 1'
    );

    my $nice = $pp->pretty_print();


=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 new

Object constructor.

Takes following arguments:

=over

=item * sql : obligatory query that will be pretty-printed

=item * service : usually obligatory url to parsing microservice

=item * struct : data structure that was obtained from the parsing microservice separately

=back

Normally one will provide C<sql> and C<service>, but for testing purposes one
can skip C<service> and instead provide C<struct>, which should be perl hash
that is exactly what is being sent from the parser as JSON.

=head2 validate_struct

Checks if given structure (either from constructor's C<struct> field, or
obtained after deserializing JSON obtained from parsing microservice) matches
some basic assumptions on what should be there.

In case of problems, exception is raised.

=head2 parse

Wraps all work related with gettin data from C<struct> given to constructor,
or from parsing C<sql> into tree of perl objects that will be responsible for
pretty printing.

In case anything goes wrong - it will raise an exception.

=head2 fetch_struct

Sends C<sql> that was given to L<new()> call to parsing microservice,
deserializes it's output, and calls C<validate_struct> to make sure that the
result is sane.

=head2 remove_irrelevant

Removes irrelevant parts of query, like prompts.

=head1 AUTHOR

hubert depesz lubaczewski, C<< <depesz at depesz.com> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<depesz at depesz.com>.

=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Pg::SQL::PrettyPrinter

