=head1 NAME

ShiftJIS::Regexp - regular expressions in Shift-JIS

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use ShiftJIS::Regexp qw(:all);

  match($string, '\p{Hiragana}{2}\p{Digit}{2}');
  match($string, '\pH{2}\pD{2}');
  # these two are equivalent:

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides some functions to use regular expressions
in Shift-JIS on the byte-oriented perl.

The legal Shift-JIS character in this module must
match the following regular expression:

    [\x00-\x7F\xA1-\xDF]|[\x81-\x9F\xE0-\xFC][\x40-\x7E\x80-\xFC]

Therefore this module can't handle the addition of single-byte characters
(C<[\x80\xA0\xFD-\xFF]>) for MacOS Japanese.

To avoid false matching in multibyte encoding, this module uses
anchoring technique to ensure each matching position places at
the character boundaries.
cf. F<perlfaq6>, "How can I match strings with multibyte characters?"

See also L<Avoiding Mismatching> below.

=head2 Functions

=over 4

=item C<re(PATTERN)>

=item C<re(PATTERN, MODIFIER)>

Returns a regular expression parsable by the byte-oriented perl.

C<PATTERN> is specified as a string. C<MODIFIER> is specified
as a string. Modifiers in the following list are allowed.

     i  case-insensitive pattern (only for ascii alphabets)
     I  case-insensitive pattern (greek, cyrillic, fullwidth latin)
     j  hiragana-katakana-insensitive pattern (but halfwidth katakana
        are not considered.)

     s  treat string as single line
     m  treat string as multiple lines
     x  ignore whitespace (i.e. [\x20\n\r\t\f]) unless backslashed
        or inside a character class; but comments are not recognized!

     o  once parsed (not compiled!) and the result is cached internally.

B<C<o> modifier>

     while (<DATA>) {
        print replace($_, '(perl)', '<strong>$1</strong>', 'igo');
     }
        is more efficient than

     while (<DATA>) {
        print replace($_, '(perl)', '<strong>$1</strong>', 'ig');
     }

     because in the latter case the pattern is parsed every time
     whenever the function is called.

=item C<match(STRING, PATTERN)>

=item C<match(STRING, PATTERN, MODIFIER)>

An emulation of C<m//> operator aware of Shift-JIS.
But, to emulate C<@list = $string =~ m/PATTERN/g>,
the pattern should be parenthesized
(capturing parentheses are not added automatically).

    @list = match($string, '\pH', 'g'); # wrong; returns garbage!
    @list = match($string,'(\pH)','g'); # good

C<PATTERN> is specified as a string. C<MODIFIER> is specified as a string.

     i,I,j,s,m,x,o   please see re().

     g  match globally
     z  tell the function the pattern matches an empty string
           (sorry, due to the poor auto-detection)

=item C<replace(STRING or SCALAR REF, PATTERN, REPLACEMENT)>

=item C<replace(STRING or SCALAR REF, PATTERN, REPLACEMENT, MODIFIER)>

An emulation of C<s///> operator but aware of Shift-JIS.

If a reference to a scalar is specified as the first argument,
substitutes the referent scalar and returns the number of substitutions made.
If a string (not a reference) is specified as the first argument,
returns the substituted string and the specified string is unaffected.

C<MODIFIER> is specified as a string.

     i,I,j,s,m,x,o   please see re().
     g,z             please see match().

=item C<jsplit(PATTERN or ARRAY REF of [PATTERN, MODIFIER], STRING)>

=item C<jsplit(PATTERN or ARRAY REF of [PATTERN, MODIFIER], STRING, LIMIT)>

An emulation of C<CORE::split> but aware of Shift-JIS.

In scalar/void context, it does not split into the C<@_> array;
in scalar context, only returns the number of fields found.

C<PATTERN> is specified as a string. But C<' '> as C<PATTERN> has
no special meaning; it splits the string on a single space similarly
to C<CORE::split / />.

When you want to split the string on whitespace, pass an undefined
value as C<PATTERN> or use the C<splitspace()> function.

    jsplit(undef, " \x81\x40 This  is \x81\x40 perl.");
    splitspace(" \x81\x40 This  is \x81\x40 perl.");
    # ('This', 'is', 'perl.')

If you want to pass pattern with modifiers, specify an arrayref
of C<[PATTERN, MODIFIER]> as the first argument. You can also
use L<Embedded Modifiers>).

C<MODIFIER> is specified as a string.

     i,I,j,s,m,x,o   please see re().

=item C<splitspace(STRING)>

=item C<splitspace(STRING, LIMIT)>

This function emulates C<CORE::split(' ', STRING, LIMIT)>. It returns
a list given by split C<STRING> on whitespace including C<"\x81\x40">
(IDEOGRAPHIC SPACE). Leading whitespace characters do not produce
any field.

B<Note:> C<splitspace(STRING, LIMIT)> is equivalent
to C<jsplit(undef, STRING, LIMIT)>.

=item C<splitchar(STRING)>

=item C<splitchar(STRING, LIMIT)>

This function emulates C<CORE::split(//, STRING, LIMIT)>.
It returns a list given by split of C<STRING> into characters.

B<Note:> C<splitchar(STRING, LIMIT)> is equivalent
to C<jsplit('', STRING, LIMIT)>.

=back

=head2 Basic Regular Expressions

   regexp          meaning

   ^               match the start of the string
                   match the start of any line with 'm' modifier

   $               match the end of the string, or before newline at the end
                   match the end of any line with 'm' modifier

   .               match any character except \n
                   match any character with 's' modifier

   \A              only at beginning of string
   \Z              at the end of the string, or before newline at the end
   \z              only at the end of the string (eq. '(?!\n)\Z')

   \C              match a single C char (octet), i.e. [\0-\xFF] in perl.
   \j              match any character, i.e. [\0-\x{FCFC}] in this module.
   \J              match any character except \n, i.e. [^\n] in this module.

     * \j and \J are extensions by this module. e.g.

        match($_, '(\j{5})\z') returns last five chars including \n at the end
        match($_, '(\J{5})\Z') returns last five chars excluding \n at the end

=head2 Metacharacters

   \a              alarm      (BEL)
   \b              backspace  (BS) * within character classes *
   \e              escape     (ESC)
   \f              form feed  (FF)
   \n              newline    (LF)
   \r              return     (CR)
   \t              tab        (HT)
   \0              null       (NUL)

   \ooo            octal single-byte character
   \xhh            hexadecimal single-byte character
   \x{hhhh}        hexadecimal double-byte character
   \c[             control character

      e.g. \012 \123 \x5c \x5C \x{824F} \x{9Fae} \cA \cZ \c^ \c?

=head2 Character Classes

A character class can include literal characters, metacharacters,
and predefined character classes.
Ranges in character class are supported. The endpoints of a range
are specified by literal characters or metacharacters.

The order of Shift-JIS characters is:
  C<0x00 .. 0x7F, 0xA1 .. 0xDF, 0x8140 .. 0x9FFC, 0xE040 .. 0xFCFC>.

It is no need for users to be conscious of legal ranges of leading
and trailing bytes in Shift-JIS, as this module properly skips
illegal byte sequences when a character range is to be expanded.
For example C<[\x{8340}-\x{8396}]> is equivalent to
C<[\x{8340}-\x{837E}\x{8380}-\x{8396}]>, since C<0x7F> is illegal
as the trailing byte in Shift-JIS.
So C<[\0-\x{fcfc}]> matches any one Shift-JIS character.
In character classes, any character or byte sequence that does not
match any one Shift-JIS character (say, C<re('[\xA0-\xFF]')>) is croaked.

Character classes that match non-Shift-JIS substring
are not supported (use C<\C> or alternation).

=head2 Character Equivalences

Since the version 0.13,
the POSIX character equivalence classes C<[=x=]> are supported,
where x can be any character literal or meta chatacter
(C<\xhh>, C<\x{hhhh}>) that belongs to the character equivalents can be used.
have identical meanings.
Character equivalence classes are used in a character class.

A kana collation symbol which may be voiced/semi-voiced includes
a sequence(s) of two characters of voiced/semi-voiced in halfwidth katakana.

C<[[===]]> matches C<EQUALS SIGN> or C<FULLWIDTH EQUALS SIGN>; C<[[=[=]]>
matches C<LEFT SQUARE BRACKET> or C<FULLWIDTH LEFT SQUARE BRACKET>; C<[[=]=]]>
matches C<RIGHT SQUARE BRACKET> or C<FULLWIDTH RIGHT SQUARE BRACKET>;
C<[[=\=]]> matches C<YEN SIGN> or C<FULLWIDTH YEN SIGN>.

=head2 Predefined Character Classes

   Normal        Abbrev.      POSIX            definition by characters and ranges

   \d                                          [0-9]
   \D                                          [^0-9]
   \w                                          [0-9A-Z_a-z]
   \W                                          [^0-9A-Z_a-z]
   \s                                          [\t\n\r\f ]
   \S                                          [^\t\n\r\f ]

   \p{Xdigit}     \pX        [[:xdigit:]]      [0-9A-Fa-f]
   \p{Digit}      \pD        [[:digit:]]       [0-9\x{824F}-\x{8258}]
   \p{Upper}      \pU        [[:upper:]]       [A-Z\x{8260}-\x{8279}]
   \p{Lower}      \pL        [[:lower:]]       [a-z\x{8281}-\x{829A}]
   \p{Alpha}      \pA        [[:alpha:]]       [\p{Upper}\p{Lower}]
   \p{Alnum}      \pQ        [[:alnum:]]       [\p{Alpha}\p{Digit}]

   \p{Word}       \pW        [[:word:]]        [_\p{Digit}\p{European}\p{Kana}\p{Kanji}]
   \p{Punct}      \pP        [[:punct:]]       [!-/:-@[-`{-~\xA1-\xA5\x{8141}-\x{8149}\x{814C}-\x{8151}
                                                \x{815C}-\x{81AC}\x{81B8}-\x{81BF}\x{81C8}-\x{81CE}
                                                \x{81DA}-\x{81E8}\x{81F0}-\x{81F7}\x{81FC}\x{849F}-\x{84BE}]
   \p{Graph}      \pG        [[:graph:]]       [\p{Word}\p{Punct}]
   \p{Print}      \pT        [[:print:]]       [\x20\x{8140}\p{Graph}]
   \p{Space}      \pS        [[:space:]]       [\x20\x{8140}\x09-\x0D]
   \p{Blank}      \pB        [[:blank:]]       [\x20\x{8140}\t]
   \p{Cntrl}      \pC        [[:cntrl:]]       [\x00-\x1F\x7F]
   \p{ASCII}                 [[:ascii:]]       [\x00-\x7F]

   \p{Roman}      \pR        [[:roman:]]       [\x21-\x7E]
   \p{Hankaku}    \pY        [[:hankaku:]]     [\xA1-\xDF]
   \p{Zenkaku}    \pZ        [[:zenkaku:]]     [\x{8140}-\x{FCFC}]
 ( \p{^Zenkaku}   \p^Z       [[:^zenkaku:]]    [\x00-\x7F\xA1-\xDF] )
   \p{Halfwidth}             [[:halfwidth:]]   [!#$%&()*+,./0-9:;<=>?@A-Z\[\x5c\]^_`a-z{|}~]
   \p{Fullwidth}  \pF        [[:fullwidth:]]   [\x{8143}\x{8144}\x{8146}-\x{8149}\x{814D}\x{814F}-\x{8151}
                                                \x{815E}\x{8162}\x{8169}\x{816A}\x{816D}-\x{8170}\x{817B}
                                                \x{8181}\x{8183}\x{8184}\x{818F}\x{8190}\x{8193}-\x{8197}
                                                \x{824F}-\x{8258}\p{FullLatin}]

   \p{X0201}                 [[:x0201:]]       [\x20-\x7F\xA1-\xDF]
   \p{X0208}                 [[:x0208:]]       [\x{8140}-\x{81AC}\x{81B8}-\x{81BF}\x{81C8}-\x{81CE}
                                                \x{81DA}-\x{81E8}\x{81F0}-\x{81F7}\x{81FC}\x{824F}-\x{8258}
                                                \p{FullLatin}\x{829F}-\x{82F1}\x{8340}-\x{8396}
                                                \p{Greek}\p{Cyrillic}\p{BoxDrawing}\p{Kanji1}\p{Kanji2}]
   \p{X0211}                 [[:x0211:]]       [\x00-\x1F]
   \p{JIS}        \pJ        [[:jis:]]         [\p{X0201}\p{X0208}\p{X0211}]

   \p{NEC}        \pN        [[:nec:]]         [\x{8740}-\x{875D}\x{875F}-\x{8775}\x{877E}-\x{879C}
                                                \x{ED40}-\x{EEEC}\x{EEEF}-\x{EEFC}]
   \p{IBM}        \pI        [[:ibm:]]         [\x{FA40}-\x{FC4B}]
   \p{Vendor}     \pV        [[:vendor:]]      [\p{NEC}\p{IBM}]
   \p{MSWin}      \pM        [[:mswin:]]       [\p{JIS}\p{Vendor}]

   \p{Latin}                 [[:latin:]]       [A-Za-z]
   \p{FullLatin}             [[:fulllatin:]]   [\x{8260}-\x{8279}\x{8281}-\x{829A}]
   \p{Greek}                 [[:greek:]]       [\x{839F}-\x{83B6}\x{83BF}-\x{83D6}]
   \p{Cyrillic}              [[:cyrillic:]]    [\x{8440}-\x{8460}\x{8470}-\x{8491}]
   \p{European}   \pE        [[:european:]]    [\p{Latin}\p{FullLatin}\p{Greek}\p{Cyrillic}]

   \p{HalfKana}              [[:halfkana:]]    [\xA6-\xDF]
   \p{Hiragana}   \pH        [[:hiragana:]]    [\x{829F}-\x{82F1}\x{814A}\x{814B}\x{8154}\x{8155}]
   \p{Katakana}   \pK        [[:katakana:]]    [\x{8340}-\x{8396}\x{815B}\x{8152}\x{8153}]
   \p{FullKana}              [[:fullkana:]]    [\p{Hiragana}\p{Katakana}]
   \p{Kana}                  [[:kana:]]        [\p{HalfKana}\p{FullKana}]
   \p{Kanji0}     \p0        [[:kanji0:]]      [\x{8156}-\x{815A}]
   \p{Kanji1}     \p1        [[:kanji1:]]      [\x{889F}-\x{9872}]
   \p{Kanji2}     \p2        [[:kanji2:]]      [\x{989F}-\x{EAA4}]
   \p{Kanji}                 [[:kanji:]]       [\p{Kanji0}\p{Kanji1}\p{Kanji2}]
   \p{BoxDrawing}            [[:boxdrawing:]]  [\x{849F}-\x{84BE}]

=over 4

=item *

C<\p{Halfwidth}> matches an ASCII graphic character excluding
C<QUOTATION MARK>, C<APOSTROPHE>, and C<HYPHEN-MINUS>.
C<\p{Fullwidth}> matches a double-byte character corresponding
to C<\p{Halfwidth}>.  Note: the C<\p{Fullwidth}> character for
C<0x5C> (C<\>) is C<FULLWIDTH YEN SIGN> and that for C<0x7E> (C<~>)
is C<FULLWIDTH MACRON>.

=item *

C<\p{MSWin}> matches a character of Microsoft CP932.
C<\p{NEC}> matches an NEC special character or an NEC-selected
IBM extended character.
C<\p{IBM}> matches an IBM extended character.
C<\p{Vendor}> matches a character of vendor-defined characters
in Microsoft CP932, i.e. equivalent to C<[\p{NEC}\p{IBM}]>.

=item *

C<\p{Kanji0}> matches a kanji of the minimum kanji class of JIS X 4061;
C<\p{Kanji1}> matches a kanji of the level 1 kanji of JIS X 0208;
C<\p{Kanji2}> matches a kanji of the level 2 kanji of JIS X 0208;
C<\p{Kanji}> matches a kanji of the basic kanji class of JIS X 4061.

=item *

C<\p{Prop}>, C<\P{^Prop}>, C<[\p{Prop}]>, etc. are equivalent to each other;
and their complements are C<\P{Prop}>, C<\p{^Prop}>, C<[\P{Prop}]>,
C<[^\p{Prop}]>, etc.
C<\pP>, C<\P^P>, C<[\pP]>, etc. are equivalent to each other;
and their complements are C<\PP>, C<\p^P>, C<[\PP]>, C<[^\pP]>, etc.
C<[[:class:]]> is equivalent to C<[^[:^class:]]>;
and their complements are C<[[:^class:]]> or C<[^[:class:]]>.

=item *

In C<\p{Prop}>, C<\P{Prop}>, C<[:class:]> expressions,
C<Prop> and C<class> are case-insensitive.
E.g. C<\p{digit}>, C<[:BoxDrawing:]>, etc. are also accepted.
Prefixes C<Is> and C<In> for C<\p{Prop}> and C<\P{Prop}>
(e.g. C<\p{IsProp}>, C<\P{InProp}>, etc.) are optional.
But C<\p{isProp}>, C<\p{ISProp}>, etc. are not ok,
since the prefixes C<Is> and C<In> are B<not> case-insensitive.

=back

=head2 Examples of Character Classes

=over 4

=item Kanji

   Level 1 and 2 kanji by JIS X 0208:1997;   [\x{889F}-\x{9872}\x{989F}-\x{EAA4}]
   Level 3 kanji by JIS X 0213:2004; [\x{879F}-\x{889E}\x{9873}-\x{989E}\x{EAA5}-\x{EFFC}]
   Level 4 kanji by JIS X 0213:2004;         [\x{F040}-\x{FCF4}]
   Level 1 to 3 kanji by JIS X 0213:2004;    [\x{879F}-\x{EFFC}]
   Level 1 to 4 kanji by JIS X 0213:2004;    [\x{879F}-\x{FCF4}]
   Kanji in NEC-selected IBM extended chars; [\x{ED40}-\x{EEEC}]
   Kanji in IBM extended characters;         [\x{FA5C}-\x{FC4B}]

=item JIS X 0213:2004

   Assigned;       [\x{8140}-\x{82F9}\x{8340}-\x{84DC}\x{84E5}-\x{84FA}
                    \x{8540}-\x{86F1}\x{86FB}-\x{8776}\x{877E}-\x{878F}
                    \x{8793}\x{8798}\x{8799}\x{879D}-\x{FCF4}]

   Unassigned;     [\x{82FA}-\x{82FC}\x{84DD}-\x{84E4}\x{84FB}\x{84FC}
                    \x{86F2}-\x{86FA}\x{8777}-\x{877D}\x{8790}-\x{8792}
                    \x{8794}-\x{8797}\x{879A}-\x{879C}\x{FCF5}-\x{FCFC}]

   Assigned (plain 1);   [\x{8140}-\x{82F9}\x{8340}-\x{84DC}\x{84E5}-\x{84FA}
                          \x{8540}-\x{86F1}\x{86FB}-\x{8776}\x{877E}-\x{878F}
                          \x{8793}\x{8798}\x{8799}\x{879D}-\x{EFFC}]

   Unassigned (plain 1); [\x{82FA}-\x{82FC}\x{84DD}-\x{84E4}\x{84FB}\x{84FC}
                          \x{86F2}-\x{86FA}\x{8777}-\x{877D}\x{8790}-\x{8792}
                          \x{8794}-\x{8797}\x{879A}-\x{879C}]

   Addition in 2004;  [\x{879F}\x{889E}\x{9873}\x{989E}\x{EAA5}\x{EFF8}-\x{EFFC}]

=item User-defined characters

   Windows CP-932:   [\x{F040}-\x{F9FC}]
   MacOS Japanese:   [\x{F040}-\x{FCFC}]

=item Circled Digits and Numbers

   Circled 1-50 by JIS X 0213;             [\x{8740}-\x{8753}\x{84BF}-\x{84DC}]
   Circled 1-20 in NEC special chars;      [\x{8740}-\x{8753}]
   Circled 1-20 in MacOS Japanese;         [\x{8540}-\x{8553}]
   Double Circled 1-10 by JIS X 0213;      [\x{83D8}-\x{83E1}]
   Negative Circled 1-20 by JIS X 0213;    [\x{869F}-\x{86B2}]
   Negative Circled 1-9 in MacOS Japanese; [\x{857C}-\x{8585}]

=item Roman Numerals

   Capital I-XII by JIS X 0213;                  [\x{8754}-\x{875E}\x{8776}]
   Capital I-X in NEC special chars;             [\x{8754}-\x{875D}]
   Capital I-X in IBM extended characters;       [\x{FA4A}-\x{FA53}]
   Capital I-XV in MacOS Japanese;               [\x{859F}-\x{85AD}]
   Small i-xii by JIS X 0213;                    [\x{86B3}-\x{86BE}]
   Small i-x in NEC-selected IBM extended chars; [\x{EEEF}-\x{EEF8}]
   Small i-x in IBM extended characters;         [\x{FA40}-\x{FA49}]
   Small i-xv in MacOS Japanese;                 [\x{85B3}-\x{85C1}]

=item Double-Byte Characters for ASCII Graphic Characters

   JIS X 0213;      [\x{8149}\x{81AE}\x{8194}\x{8190}\x{8193}\x{8195}\x{81AD}
                     \x{8169}\x{816A}\x{8196}\x{817B}\x{8143}\x{81AF}\x{8144}
                     \x{815E}\x{824F}-\x{8258}\x{8146}\x{8147}\x{8183}\x{8181}
                     \x{8184}\x{8148}\x{8197}\x{8260}-\x{8279}\x{816D}\x{815F}
                     \x{816E}\x{814F}\x{8151}\x{814D}\x{8281}-\x{829A}\x{816F}
                     \x{8162}\x{8170}\x{81B0}]

   Windows CP-932;  [\x{8149}\x{FA57}\x{8194}\x{8190}\x{8193}\x{8195}\x{FA56}
                     \x{8169}\x{816A}\x{8196}\x{817B}\x{8143}\x{817C}\x{8144}
                     \x{815E}\x{824F}-\x{8258}\x{8146}\x{8147}\x{8183}\x{8181}
                     \x{8184}\x{8148}\x{8197}\x{8260}-\x{8279}\x{816D}\x{815F}
                     \x{816E}\x{814F}\x{8151}\x{814D}\x{8281}-\x{829A}\x{816F}
                     \x{8162}\x{8170}\x{8160}]

Note: here, the character for ASCII C<0x5C> is C<REVERSE SOLIDUS> (or
C<FULLWIDTH REVERSE SOLIDUS>) and the character for ASCII C<0x7E> is
C<TILDE> (or C<FULLWIDTH TILDE>).

=back

=head2 Code Embedded in a Regular Expression (Perl 5.005 or later)

Parsing C<(?{ ... })> or C<(??{ ... })> assertions is carried out
without any special care of double-byte characters.

C<(?{ ... })> or C<(??{ ... })> assertions are disallowed
in C<match()> or C<replace()> function by perl due to security concerns.
Use them via C<re()> function inside your scope.

=head2 Embedded Modifiers

Since version 0.15, embedded modifiers are extended.

An embedded modifier, C<(?iIjsmxo)>, that appears at the beginning
of the 'regexp' or that follows one of regular expressions C<^>, C<\A>,
or C<\G> at the beginning of the 'regexp' is allowed to contain
C<I>, C<j>, C<o> modifiers.

    e.g. (?sm)pattern  ^(?i)pattern  \G(?j)pattern  \A(?ijo)pattern

=head2 Avoiding Mismatching

Using 'e' modifier in replacement or looping in a C<while>-clause
are not supported by this module. They can be used only via a usual syntax
(i.e. in C<m//> or C<s///> operators).

Use a regular expression C<'\A(\j*?)'> or C<'\G(\j*?)'>, to avoid
mismatching a single-byte character on a trailing byte of a double-byte
character, or a double-byte character on two bytes before and after
a character boundary.

Don't forget C<$1> corresponds to C<'(\j*?)'>
and backreferences intended to use begin from C<$2>.

B<Note:> If matching on a very long string, a special regular expression
C<\R{padG}> may be safer than C<\G(\j*?)> as the former has a lower
probability of that the repeating count of C<*> would overflow a limit.

=head1 CAVEATS

A legal Shift-JIS character in this module
must match the following regular expression:

   [\x00-\x7F\xA1-\xDF]|[\x81-\x9F\xE0-\xFC][\x40-\x7E\x80-\xFC]

Any string from external resource should be checked by the function
C<ShiftJIS::String::issjis()>, excepting you know it is surely encoded
in Shift-JIS.

Use of an illegal Shift-JIS string may lead to odd results.

Some Shift-JIS double-byte characters have a trailing byte
in the range of C<[\x40-\x7E]>, viz.,

   @ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ[\]^_`abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz{|}~

The Perl's lexical analyzer doesn't take any care to these characters,
so they sometimes make trouble.
For example, the quoted literal ending with a double-byte character
whose trailing byte is C<0x5C> causes a B<fatal error>,
since the trailing byte C<0x5C> backslashes the closing quote.

Such a problem doesn't arise when the string is gotten from
any external resource.
But writing the script containing Shift-JIS
double-byte characters needs the greatest care.

The use of single-quoted heredoc, C<E<lt>E<lt> ''>,
or C<\xhh> meta characters is recommended
in order to define a Shift-JIS string literal.

The safe ASCII-graphic characters, C<[\x21-\x3F]>, are:

   !"#$%&'()*+,-./0123456789:;<=>?

They are preferred as the delimiter of quote-like operators.

=head1 BUGS

=over 4

=item *

The C<\U>, C<\L>, C<\Q>, C<\E>, and interpolation are not considered.
If necessary, use them in C<""> (or C<qq//>) operators in the argument list.

=item *

The regular expressions of the word boundary,
C<\b> and C<\B>, don't work correctly.

=item *

The C<i>, C<I> and C<j> modifiers are invalid to C<\p{}>, C<\P{}>,
and POSIX C<[: :]> (e.g. C<\p{Lower}>, C<[:lower:]>, etc).
So use C<re('\p{Alpha}')> instead of C<re('\p{IsLower}', 'iI')>.

=item *

The look-behind assertion like C<(?<=[A-Z])> is not prevented from matching
trail byte of the previous double byte character.

=item *

Use of not greedy regular expressions, which can match empty string,
such as C<.??> and C<\d*?>, as the PATTERN in C<jsplit()>,
may cause failure to the emulation of C<CORE::split>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

SADAHIRO Tomoyuki <SADAHIRO@cpan.org>

Copyright(C) 2001-2012, SADAHIRO Tomoyuki. Japan. All rights reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<ShiftJIS::String>

=item L<ShiftJIS::Collate>

=back

=cut

