=head1 NAME

XS::Loader - Load XS modules which exports C functionality and check for binary compability.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    package MyXS;
    use XS::Loader;
    
    our $VERSION = '0.1.3';
    XS::Loader::bootstrap(); # loads XS and checks for binary compability
    
=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head4 load ([$module], [$VERSION], [$flags])

=head4 bootstrap ([$module], [$VERSION], [$flags])

Dynamically loads your module's C library. It is more convenient usage of:

    use DynaLoader;
    sub dl_load_flags { $flags }
    DynaLoader::bootstrap_inherit($module, $VERSION);

Or (if $flags == 0)

    use XSLoader;
    XSLoader::load($module, $VERSION);

If you don't provide $module it will be detected as caller. If no $VERSION provided, ${module}::VERSION variable/sub will be used.
If $flags is undef or not provided, 0x01 used.

Additionally, checks for binary compability with all XS modules you depend on (binary).
If any of these have changed their versions, croaks.

0x01 in $flags is not required for XS::Install's XS modules as it tells linker to link against all SO/DLL dependencies explicitly
(except for MacOS, where it is required).
However if you don't set $flags, and someone uses your XS module's C API, and someone's module neither use XS::Install nor link
against your SO/DLL explicitly, it won't work. So it is recommended to set $flags = 0x01.

=head4 load_noboot($module)

Same as C<load/bootstrap> but does not call XS boot section, only loads shared library.
Useful for modules that do not provide any perl API (pure C/C++ library).

=head1 AUTHOR

Pronin Oleg <syber@crazypanda.ru>, Crazy Panda, CP Decision LTD

=head1 LICENSE

You may distribute this code under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
