=encoding utf-8
=head1 NAME

Net::Pcap::Easy - Net::Pcap is awesome, but it's difficult to bootstrap

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use Net::Pcap::Easy;

    # all arguments to new are optoinal
    my $npe = Net::Pcap::Easy->new(
        dev              => "lo",
        filter           => "host 127.0.0.1 and (tcp or icmp)",
        packets_per_loop => 10,
        bytes_to_capture => 1024,
        promiscuous      => 0, # true or false

        tcp_callback => sub {
            my ($npe, $ether, $ip, $tcp, $header ) = @_;
            my $xmit = localtime( $header->{tv_sec} );

            print "$xmit TCP: $ip->{src_ip}:$tcp->{src_port}"
             . " -> $ip->{dest_ip}:$tcp->{dest_port}\n";

            print "\t$ether->{src_mac} -> $ether->{dest_mac}\n" if $SHOW_MAC;
        },

        icmp_callback => sub {
            my ($npe, $ether, $ip, $icmp, $header ) = @_;
            my $xmit = localtime( $header->{tv_sec} );

            print "$xmit ICMP: $ether->{src_mac}:$ip->{src_ip}"
             . " -> $ether->{dest_mac}:$ip->{dest_ip}\n";
        },
    );

    1 while $npe->loop;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is little more than a collection of macros and convenience
functions.  L<Net::Pcap> does all the real work (of lifting libpcap into perl
anyway).

Every time I began to write a L<Net::Pcap> application, I had to go figure out
all these little things all over again.  Most of the functions return C-style
truth values (0 is ok, non-zero is a problem), installing a filter is
un-obvious, how to disassemble the packet is a process of reading four or five
pods (e.g. L<NetPacket::UDP>), etc...

What I wanted was one POD that covered everything you need to know, and a
wrapper that makes everything perl-esque.

=head1 Net::Pcap::Easy METHODS

There are a couple convenience functions available, two control functions, and
various blessed-hash keys at your disposal.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item C<dev()>

Returns the name of the device you're sniffing.

=item C<pcap()>

This returns the actual L<Net::Pcap> reference.  If you need to call a function
from L<Net::Pcap> that requires a pcap object argument, this would be the object
to pass.

=item C<network()>

Returns the network the device is on (as a text ip number, e.g., 192.168.1.0).

=item C<netmask()>

Returns the netmask of the device (as a text ip number, e.g., 255.255.255.0).

=item C<cidr()>

Returns the network of the device as a L<Net::Netmask> object, which string-interpolates to CIDR notation.

=item C<raw_network()>

This is the long (see L<pack|perlfunc/pack>'s "l") value of the network.

=item C<raw_netmask()>

This is the long (see L<pack|perlfunc/pack>'s "l") value of the netmask.

=item C<is_local($ip_or_network)>

Returns true when the first argument is an IP (as text) or network (as text or
as a L<Net::Netmask> object) is "in" the listening network.  See L<Net::Netmask>
for details on this.

=item C<loop()>

Call this over and over until your program is done listening.  It collects a
number of packets equal to L</packets_per_loop> (see below) and passes each
packet one at a time to any callbacks you've specified (see below).

The function returns the number of packets processed (normally the same as
L</packets_per_loop>), and therefore less than L</packets_per_loop> or 0 at the
end of a packet file.

It returns the empty list or the undef value in the case of an error.

=item C<stats()>

Returns a hash (or hashref) containing collection statistics.

    {
        drop   => 0, # packets missed by libpcap
        ifdrop => 0, # packets missed by interface
        recv   => 1, # packets captured
    }

=item C<new()>

The details are in the L<OPTIONS|/OPTIONS> section below.

=item C<close()>

Close the pcap.  Intended to be useful from SIG/while loops like this.

    $SIG{INT} = sub { $npe->close };
    while( $npe->loop ) {
        # ... blah
    }

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

L<Net::Pcap::Easy> takes a small number of options, each of which is purely
optional, although it's recommended to specify as many as possible, particularly
the device.

The options can only be specified as arguments to the C<new()> method.

=over 4

=item C<dev>

The device you wish to listen on, eth0, "Local Area Connection," etc.  It's a
good idea to specify this device, but if you don't, L<Net::Pcap::Easy> will
attempt to locate it with L<Net::Pcap>'s C<lookupdev()> method.  Odds are good
that it won't find the device you want, your mileage may vary.

    my $npe = Net::Pcap::Easy->new(
        dev              => "eth0",
        filter           => "icmp",
        packets_per_loop => 10,

        icmp_callback => sub { warn "ping or something!\n" },
    );

    1 while $npe->loop; # loop() returns 10, 10, 10, until you hit ^C
    exit 0;

If passed a special filename, C<"file:/path/name">, L<Net::Pcap::Easy> will try
to open that file and read it as the device.  This will break functions like
L</network>, L</netmask> and the raw versions -- their results are undefined.

    bash$ tcpdump -c 6 -i lo -w lo.data

    my $npe = Net::Pcap::Easy->new(
        dev              => "file:./lo.data",
        packets_per_loop => 3,
        icmp_callback => sub { warn "ping or something!\n" },
    );

    1 while $npe->loop; # loop() returns 3 twice, then a 0
    exit 0;

=item C<packets_per_loop>

The number of packets to capture on each loop.  Most likely, it's more efficient
to capture more than one packet per loop.  But if you capture too many your
program will seem to stutter.  Likely there's a nice balance somewhere.

L<Net::Pcap::Easy> defaults to a value of C<32> packets per loop.  The minimum
is C<1> and L<Net::Pcap::Easy> will silently discard values lower than C<1>,
using the default PPL instead.

=item C<bytes_to_capture>

The number of bytes to capture from each packet.  Defaults to C<1024>.  The
minimum is C<256> and L<Net::Pcap::Easy> will silently discard values lower than
this, simply using the minimum instead.  If you really really want to capture
less, you can change the minimum by setting C<$Net::Pcap::Easy::MIN_SNAPLEN> to
whatever value you like.

=item C<timeout_in_ms>

Use this to set a timeout for the C<loop()> method (see below).  The default is
C<0>, meaning: wait until I get my packets.  If you set this to some number
greater than C<0>, the C<loop()> function may return before capturing the
requested PPL.

Note that this probably doesn't ever do anything useful.  The libpcap timeout
doesn't have any useful relationship to actually timing out on most platforms.

L<https://github.com/the-tcpdump-group/libpcap/issues/86> (et al).

The simplest solution for this is to use L<forks>.  There is an example of this
included in the distribution.

L<https://github.com/jettero/net--pcap--easy/blob/master/examples/forks.pl>

=item C<promiscuous>

This is a boolean value (in the perl sense) indicating whether you wish to
capture packets not intended for the listening interface.  The default is false.

=item C<pcap>

You can optionally build the L<Net::Pcap> object yourself.  Presumably you have
something custom in mind if you choose to do this.  Choosing to do this will
disable various features (like populating the network and netmask fields);

=item C<*_callback>

The captured packets are passed to code refs.  There are a variety of callback
types to choose from.  Each callback must be a code ref.

This is covered in more detail below.

=back

=head1 CALLBACKS

Only one callback will get called for each packet.

If a packet would match multiple callbacks it will try to call the most specific
match first (whatever that might mean).  The callbacks are listed in order of
preference.

=over 4

=item C<tcp_callback>

The callback will receive as arguments:

    my ($npe, $ether, $ip, $tcp, $header ) = @_;

C<$npe> is the L<Net::Pcap::Easy> object, C<$ether> is a L<NetPacket::Ethernet>
object, C<$ip> is a L<NetPacket::IP> object, C<$tcp> is a L<NetPacket::TCP>
object and C<$header> is a L<Net::Pcap> header object.

Each C<Net::Pcap> object contains the length of the entire packet C<{len}>, the
length captured by the libpcap C<{caplen}>, and the timestamp from the packet header
C<{tv_sec}>/C<{tv_usec}> — C<{tv_sec}> is seconds since the epoch (see:
L<perlfunc/localtime>) and C<{tv_usec}> is microseconds since that second [I
think].

Each C<NetPacket> object contains a C<{data}> field that holds the data
below the packet headers.  Unsurprisingly, the C<{dest_mac}> and C<{src_mac}>
are available in the C<$ether> object, the C<{src_ip}> and C<{dest_ip}> are in
the C<$ip> object and the C<{dest_port}> and C<{src_port}> are in the C<$tcp>
object.

Example:

    tcp_callback => sub {
        my ($npe, $ether, $ip, $tcp, $header ) = @_;

        print "TCP: $ip->{src_ip}:$tcp->{src_port} -> $ip->{dest_ip}:$tcp->{dest_port}\n";
        print "\t$ether->{src_mac} -> $ether->{dest_mac}\n" if $SHOW_MAC;
    }

=item C<udp_callback>

The callback will receive as arguments:

    my ($npe, $ether, $ip, $udp, $header ) = @_;

This works exactly like the C<tcp_callback> except that instead of C<$tcp>, the
callback is passed a C<$udp> argument that is a L<NetPacket::UDP> object.  The
C<$udp> object has a C<{src_port}> and C<{dest_port}>, just like you'd expect.

=item C<icmp_callback>

The callback will receive as arguments:

    my ($npe, $ether, $ip, $icmp, $header ) = @_;

This callback is quite similar to the C<tcp_callback>/C<udp_callback>s, but the
L<NetPacket::ICMP> object doesn't have ports.  See that page for details on
parsing ICMP packets and/or use the more specific callbacks below, instead of
parsing the C<{type}> by hand.

Technically these ICMP are out of preference order (they should be above, not
below the C<icmp_callback>).  However, they all receive identical arguments to
the generic C<icmp_callback> ...

Specific ICMP Callbacks: C<icmpechoreply_callback>, C<icmpunreach_callback>,
C<icmpsourcequench_callback>, C<icmpredirect_callback>, C<icmpecho_callback>,
C<icmprouteradvert_callback>, C<icmproutersolicit_callback>, C<icmptimxceed_callback>,
C<icmpparamprob_callback>, C<icmptstamp_callback>, C<icmptstampreply_callback>,
C<icmpireq_callback>, C<icmpireqreply_callback>

=item C<igmp_callback>

The callback will receive as arguments:

    my ($npe, $ether, $ip, $igmp, $header ) = @_;

Please see the L<NetPacket::IGMP> page for details on the C<$igmp> argument.

=item C<ipv4_callback>

The callback will receive as arguments:

    my ($npe, $ether, $ip, $spo, $header ) = @_;

C<$spo> is any of L<NetPacket::TCP>, L<NetPacket::UDP>, L<NetPacket::ICMP>,
L<NetPacket::IGMP>, or C<undef> (see the default callback, below, for an example
on parsing the C<$spo>).

The biggest difference between the C<ipv4_callback> and the C<default_callback>
is that you can say for sure the third argument is a L<NetPacket::IP> object.

=item C<arp_callback>

The callback will receive as arguments:

    my ($npe, $ether, $arp, $header ) = @_;

This callback is also quite similar to the
C<tcp_callback>/C<udp_callback>/C<icmp_callback>s.  See the L<NetPacket::ARP>
page for details on parsing ARP packets and/or use the more specific callbacks
below, instead of parsing the C<{type}> by hand.

Technically these ARP are out of preference order (they should be above, not
below the C<arp_callback>).  However, they all receive identical arguments to
the generic C<arp_callback> ...

Specific ARP Callbacks: C<arpreply_callback>, C<arpreq_callback>,
C<rarpreply_callback>, C<rarpreq_callback>

=back

=head1 OTHER_CALLBACKS

=over 4

=item C<ipv6_callback>

The callback will receive as arguments:

    my ($npe, $ether, $header ) = @_;

There doesn't seem to be a C<NetPacket> decoder for this type of packet, so,
this callback gets only the C<NetPacket::Ethernet> object.

=item C<snmp_callback>

The callback will receive as arguments:

    my ($npe, $ether, $header ) = @_;

There doesn't seem to be a C<NetPacket> decoder for this type of packet, so,
this callback gets only the C<NetPacket::Ethernet> object.

=item C<ppp_callback>

The callback will receive as arguments:

    my ($npe, $ether, $header ) = @_;

There doesn't seem to be a C<NetPacket> decoder for this type of packet, so,
this callback gets only the C<NetPacket::Ethernet> object.

=item C<appletalk_callback>

The callback will receive as arguments:

    my ($npe, $ether, $header ) = @_;

There doesn't seem to be a C<NetPacket> decoder for this type of packet, so,
this callback gets only the C<NetPacket::Ethernet> object.

=back

=head1 DEFAULT CALLBACK

=over 4

=item C<default_callback>

Anything not captured above will go to this callback if specified.  It receives
a variety of arguments, differing based on the packet types.  There are seven
types of calls it might receive:

    my ($npe, $ether, $ip, $tcp, $header )  = @_; # TCP packets
    my ($npe, $ether, $ip, $udp, $header )  = @_; # UDP packets
    my ($npe, $ether, $ip, $icmp, $header ) = @_; # ICMP packets
    my ($npe, $ether, $ip, $igmp, $header ) = @_; # IGMP packets
    my ($npe, $ether, $ip, $header )        = @_; # other IP packets
    my ($npe, $ether, $arp, $header )       = @_; # ARP packets
    my ($npe, $ether, $header )             = @_; # everything else

Example:

    default_callback => sub {
        my ($npe, $ether, $po, $spo, $header ) = @_;

        if( $po ) {
            if( $po->isa("NetPacket::IP") ) {
                if( $spo ) {
                    if( $spo->isa("NetPacket::TCP") ) {
                        print "TCP packet: $po->{src_ip}:$spo->{src_port} -> ",
                            "$po->{dest_ip}:$spo->{dest_port}\n";

                    } elsif( $spo->isa("NetPacket::UDP") ) {
                        print "UDP packet: $po->{src_ip}:$spo->{src_port} -> ",
                            "$po->{dest_ip}:$spo->{dest_port}\n";

                    } else {
                        print "", ref($spo), ": $po->{src_ip} -> ",
                            "$po->{dest_ip} ($po->{type})\n";
                    }

                } else {
                    print "IP packet: $po->{src_ip} -> $po->{dest_ip}\n";
                }

            } elsif( $po->isa("NetPacket::ARP") ) {
                print "ARP packet: $po->{sha} -> $po->{tha}\n";
            }

        } else {
            print "IPv6 or appletalk or something... huh\n";
        }
    }

=back

=head1 FAST_CALLBACK

The L<NetPacket> stuff is a little slow because it's object oriented and
therefore involves many function calls.  If you have a need for something really
fast, you can supply something to the C<loop()> function.  This will avoid all
internal processing of the packet and you will be completely on your own
regarding the packet processing.  Also, the C<loop()> will fail to return the
number of processed packets since it didn't process any.

Warning: The following is not "Easy" like the rest of this package and assumes
knowledge of the network layers (2-Ethernet, 3-IPv4, 4-TCP/UDP)

    1 while defined
    # NOTE: defined, since loop returns 0 and undef on error

    $npe->loop( sub {
        my ($user_data, $header, $raw_bytes) = @_;

        # $user_data is literally "user data"

        # $header is like this:
        # { caplen => 96, len => 98, tv_sec => 1245963414, tv_usec => 508250 },

        print unpack("H*", $raw_bytes), "\n";

        my $packet = $_[-1]; # this is the same as $raw_bytes, but I prefer
                             # the word packet and rarely examin the other
                             # elements of @_

        # Calculating precisely what you need is quite a bit faster than
        # decoding the whole packet -- although it's not exactly "Easy."  Say
        # we're interested in IPv4 TCP and UDP packets only... The following
        # assumes *Ethernet* and we don't check it!

        my $l3protlen = ord substr $packet, 14, 1; # the protocol and length
        my $l3prot    = $l3protlen & 0xf0 >> 2; # the protocol part

        return unless $l3prot == 4; # return unless IPv4

        my $l4prot = ord substr $packet, 23, 1; # the L4protocol

        # return unless it's udp(17) or tcp(6)
        return unless $l4prot == 6 or $l4prot == 17;

        my $l3hlen= ($l3protlen & 0x0f) * 4; # number of 32bit words
        my $l4 = 14 + $l3hlen; # the layer 4 data starts here

        # my $src_ip = substr $packet, 26, 4; # these are netowrk order packed
        # my $dst_ip = substr $packet, 30, 4; # but they're pretty easy to convert

        # The ord of the individual bytes of an IP are what we usually
        # see... join(".", map { ord $_} split "", "\xc0\xa8\x01\x01")
        # gives 192.168.1.1

        # Here, I'm only interestd in local network downloads
        my $upload = 0;

        if( substr($packet, 30, 2) eq "\xc0\xa8" ) { # 192.168.0.0/16x.x
            # download direction

            my $cust = ord(substr($packet, 32,1)) .'.'. ord(substr($packet, 33,1));
            my $port = unpack 'n', substr $packet, $l4+0, 2; # src port

            # On my network, in this sense, the last two bytes idenfity a "customer"
            # the source port (on a download) is the port the protocol operates on.
            # 80 for http, 110 for pop3, etc.  Unpack('n', blarg) gives the
            # network order 2-byte port number as a Perl number.

            _do_things($cust, $port);

        } elsif( $upload ) {
            # upload direction

            my $cust = ord(substr($packet, 28,1)) .'.'. ord(substr($packet, 29,1));
            my $port = unpack 'n', substr $packet, $l4+2, 2; # dst port

            # In the upload direction, the protocol port is the dst port.

            _do_things($cust, $port);
        }

    });

=head1 CAVEAT

Note, silly though this may seem, if the packets are received by a non-Ethernet
device, they will be encapsulated in a fake Ethernet frame before being passed
to the callbacks.  This design decision (or kludge) was chosen to help keep the
module simple.

=head1 AUTHOR

Paul Miller C<< <jettero@cpan.org> >>

I am using this software in my own projects...  If you find bugs, please
please please let me know.  Actually, let me know if you find it handy at
all.  Half the fun of releasing this stuff is knowing that people use it.

If you see anything wrong with the callbacks, the docs, or anything:  Definitely
let me know!  rt.cpan, irc, email, whatever.  Just let me know.

=head2 Patches welcome!

Please note that your patches should avoid changing the API for downstream
users.  Sometimes this means making bad design decisions (e.g., sticking fake
Ethernet headers on non-Ethernet frames).

=over

=item ANDK

Fixed various things in the init functions.  See RT #47324.

=item Daniel Roethlisberger

Helped L<Net::Pcap::Easy> load non Ethernet frames.

=item Jerry Litteer

Needed Ethernet C<$header> information for his project, so he sent patches.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Paul Miller

=head1 LICENSE

This module is free software.  You can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

=head1 SEE ALSO

perl(1), L<Net::Pcap>, L<Net::Pcap>, L<Net::Netmask>, L<NetPacket::Ethernet>, L<NetPacket::IP>,
L<NetPacket::ARP>, L<NetPacket::TCP>, L<NetPacket::UDP>, L<NetPacket::IGMP>, L<NetPacket::ICMP>
