=head1 NAME

BigIP::ParseConfig - F5/BigIP configuration parser

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use BigIP::ParseConfig;
  
  # Module initialization
  my $bip = new BigIP::ParseConfig( '/config/bigip.conf' );
  
  # Iterate over pools
  foreach my $pool ( $bip->pools() ) {
      # Iterate over pool members
      foreach my $member ( $bip->members( $pool ) ) {
          # Change port from 80 to 443
          if ( $member /^(\d+\.\d+\.\d+\.\d+):80/ ) {
              push @members, "$1:443";
              my $change = 1;
          }
      }
      # Commit the change above (80->443)
      if ( $change ) {
          $bip->modify(
              type => 'pool',
              key  => $pool,
              members => [ @members ]
          );
      }
  }
  
  # Write out a new config file
  $bip->write( '/config/bigip.conf.new' );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

BigIP::ParseConfig provides a Perl interface to reading, writing, and
manipulating configuration files used on F5 (BigIP) LTM network devices.

This module is currently a work-in-progress.  Please e-mail with problems,
bug fixes, comments and complaints.

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=over 4

=item new ( FILE )

Create a new B<BigIP::ParseConfig> object.

C<FILE> refers to the bigip.conf configuration file, usually found at
/config/bigip.conf.

B<Example>

  $bip = BigIP::ParseConfig->new( '/config/bigip.conf' );

=back

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item monitors

=item nodes

=item partitions

=item pools

=item profiles

=item routes

=item rules

=item users

=item virtuals

List the names of all found objects of the referring method.

B<Examples>

  @pools = $bip->pools();

  @virtuals = $bip->virtuals();

=item monitor ( MONITOR )

=item node ( NODE )

=item partition ( PARTITION )

=item pool ( POOL )

=item profile ( PROFILE )

=item route ( ROUTE )

=item rule ( RULE )

=item user ( USER )

=item virtual ( VIRTUAL )

Return a hash of the object specified.

B<Examples>

  %sschneid = $bip->user( 'sschneid' );

  $monitor = $bip->pool( 'Production_LDAP_pool')->{'monitor'};

=item members ( POOL )

List the members of a specified pool.

B<Example>

  @members = $bip->members( 'Production_LDAP_pool' );

Note that this is identical to using the I<pool> method:

  @members = @{$bip->pool( 'Production_LDAP_pool' )->{'members'}};

=item modify ( OPTIONS )

Modify the attributes of a specified object.  The following options are B<required>:

=over 4

=item type

The type of object being modified.  Allowed types are: monitor, node, partition,
pool, profile, route, user, virtual.

=item key

The key (name) of the object being modified.

=back

Following B<type> and B<key> should be a string or a reference to an array of
strings.  See the example below for more details.

B<Examples>

  $bip->modify(
      type => 'virtual',
      key  => 'Production_LDAP_vip',
      persist => 'cookie'
  );
  
  $bip->modify(
      type => 'pool',
      key  => 'Production_LDAP_pool',
      members => [ '192.168.0.1:636', '192.168.0.2:636' ]
  );

=item write ( FILE )

Write out a new configuration file.  C<FILE> refers to the bigip.conf configuration
file, usually found at /config/bigip.conf.

B<Example>

  $bip->write( '/config/bigip.conf.new' );

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Scott Schneider <sschneid@gmail.com>

=cut

