=head1 NAME

Alien::Judy - A wrapper for installing the Judy library

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Alien::Judy is a wrapper to ease installing the Judy library from
L<http://judy.sourceforge.net>.

=head1 INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

    perl Build.PL
    ./Build
    ./Build test
    ./Build install

=head1 EXPORTABLE FUNCTIONS

=over

=item inc_dirs

Returns a list of directories perhaps likely to contain a F<Judy.h> if
Alien::Judy was made responsible for installing libJudy.

=item lib_dirs

Returns a list of directories perhaps likely to contain a
F<libJudy.so> (or F<Judy.dll> or whatever is appropriate for your
platform) if Alien::Judy was made responsible for installing libJudy.

=item dl_load_libjudy

Loads libJudy into the process

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Josh ben Jore, C<< <jjore at cpan.org> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-alien-judy at
rt.cpan.org>, or through the web interface at
L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Alien-Judy>.  I will
be notified, and then you'll automatically be notified of progress on
your bug as I make changes.




=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Alien::Judy

You can also look for information at:

=over

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Alien-Judy>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Alien-Judy>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Alien-Judy>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Alien-Judy/>

=back



=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

I stole the packaging style from Michael Schwern's L<Alien::SVN>.


=head1 Alien::Judy COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2008-2010 Josh ben Jore, all rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.



=head1 Judy COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

The included library Judy-1.0.4 is covered by separate copyright and
license. Please consult the library's source code (L<srcE<sol>judy-1.0.5E<sol>README>)for notes about its
copyright and licensing.
