=head1 NAME

Apache2::Translation::BDB - A provider for Apache2::Translation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  <TranslationProvider BDB>
      BDBEnv   /path/to/directory
      ReadOnly 1
  </TranslationProvider>

  or

  $provider=Apache2::Translation::BDB->new(BDBEnv=>..., ...);

  $provider->start;
  $provider->stop;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<BDB> provider implements the C<Apache2::Translation> provider interface
as documented in L<Apache2::Translation::_base>. It provides for all optional
functions.

Other than the C<DB> providers C<BDB> doesn't implement a cache.
BerkeleyDB is fast enough on its own. Neither does it monitor the timestamp
of a file on disk. Hence it doesn't need a C<version> or C<timestamp> field.

Nevertheless it implements a C<timestamp> method that can be used by external
tools to synchronize the database state with external sources.

=head2 B<Parameters>

=over 2

=item B<bdbenv /path/to/directory>

Here you can pass a directory name or a C<BerkeleyDB::Env> object. In the
latter case, the environment must be initialized with DB_INIT_MPOOL,
DB_INIT_LOCK, DB_INIT_TXN and DB_INIT_LOG. Further, you need to specify a
deadlock detection method.

If a directory is passed (the normal case) the provider initializes the
environment if it is not already set up. It creates 3 databases,
C<Apache2::Translation::BDB-id.db>, C<Apache2::Translation::BDB-keyuri.db> and
C<Apache2::Translation::BDB-extra.db>. C<Apache2::Translation::BDB-keyuri.db>
is used as an associated database for C<Apache2::Translation::BDB-id.db>.
That means it is a secondary index.

The extra database holds only the timestamp value. But the provider offers
an C<extra> method to store more information in this database.

See L<CONFIGFURATION> below for performance tuning.

=item B<readonly 1>

If set to true the databases are opened in readonly mode. Please note that
the program needs write permission to the database files even if this flag
is set.

=back

=head2 B<Additional Methods>

=over 2

=item B<parent_txn>

BerkeleyDB supports nested transactions. If you provide a parent transaction
the provider wraps its changes in a child transaction. Otherwise it works in
an unrelated transaction.

=item B<extra_db>

returns the database handle of the extra database.

=item B<extra key value>

stores and retrieves information from the extra database. If value is given
it is written as value for the key to the database.

returns the previous value of the key.

Note, the key C<\ttmstmp> is reserved.

=item B<timestamp time>

sets or retrieves the timestamp from the extra database.

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION

A Berkeley database is configured and tuned via a config file named
C<DB_CONFIG> located in the environment directory. The default parameters
are quite small for a WEB server application where many processes access
the database in parallel.

To tune your database create an empty directory and within it a file named
C<DB_CONFIG>. Then start the WEB Server or a helper program to create and
initialize the databases.

For me I found these values sufficient for a fairly large WEB Server:

  set_lk_max_locks   5000
  set_lk_max_lockers 5000
  set_lk_max_objects 5000
  set_tx_max         200
  set_flags          DB_LOG_INMEMORY
  set_lg_regionmax   1048576
  set_lg_bsize       10485760

See
L<http://www.oracle.com/technology/documentation/berkeley-db/db/ref/toc.html>
for further information.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<Apache2::Translation>

=item L<Apache2::Translation::DB>

=item L<Apache2::Translation::File>

=item L<Apache2::Translation::_base>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Torsten Foertsch, E<lt>torsten.foertsch@gmx.netE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2005-2008 by Torsten Foertsch

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

# Local Variables:
# mode: perl
# End:
