=pod

=head1 NAME

MP3::Album::Layout - Perl extension to manage/represent a layout for a m3 album.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	use MP3::Album::Layout;

	#create a new layout
	my $layout = new MP3::Album::Layout;

	#change the disc title
	$layout->title("Perl conference");

	#add a track
	$layout->add_track(artist=>'someone', title=>'regex how to');

	#edit track
	$layout->edit_track(position=>1, artist=>'still dont know the name');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

MP3::Album::Layout represents a mp3 album layout, which contains the (artistic) information of a album.

=head1 PUBLIC METHODS

All methods return undef in error case. The error description will be in $@.

=over

=item new()

Creates a new object.

=item edit_track(position=>$position, artist=>$art, title=>$title)

Edits the track info in $position.
If you dont pass artist or title info, the ones you dont pass will be set as empty strings.

=item add_track( artist=>$artist, title=>$title, lenght=>$lengh);

Adds a track to this the end of this layout tracklist.

=item artist([$artist])

Sets/retrieves the layout artist name.

=item genre([$genre])

Sets/retrieves this layout genre.

=item comment([$comment])

Sets/retrieves this layout comment.

=item title([$title])

Sets/retrieves this layout title.

=back

=head1 BUGS

There are no known bugs, if you catch one please let me know.

=head1 CONTACT AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2003 Bruno Tavares <bmavt@cpan.org>. All rights reserved. This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

