=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Log::Report::Lexicon::PO - one translation definition

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is administering one translation object.  Sets of PO
records are kept in a POT file, implemented in L<Log::Report::Lexicon::POT|Log::Report::Lexicon::POT>.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Log::Report::Lexicon::PO-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option      --Default
  automatic     ""
  comment       []
  format        []
  fuzzy         false
  msgctxt       undef
  msgid         <required>
  msgid_plural  undef
  msgstr        "" or []
  references    []

=over 2

=item automatic => PARAGRAPH

Automatically added comments.
See L<addAutomatic()|Log::Report::Lexicon::PO/"Attributes">.

=item comment => PARAGRAPH

Translator added comments.
See L<addComment()|Log::Report::Lexicon::PO/"Attributes">.

=item format => ARRAY|HASH

See L<format()|Log::Report::Lexicon::PO/"Attributes">.  Either an ARRAY with PAIRS or a HASH with that same
information.

=item fuzzy => BOOLEAN

The string is not yet translated, some smart guesses may have been made.
See L<fuzzy()|Log::Report::Lexicon::PO/"Attributes">.

=item msgctxt => STRING

Context string: text around the msgid itself.

=item msgid => STRING

=item msgid_plural => STRING

=item msgstr => STRING|ARRAY-OF-STRING

The translations for the msgid.  When msgid_plural is defined, then an
ARRAY must be provided.

=item references => STRING|ARRAY-OF-LOCATIONS

The STRING is a blank separated list of LOCATIONS.
LOCATIONs are of the  form C<filename:linenumber>, for
instance C<lib/Foo.pm:42>
See L<addReferences()|Log::Report::Lexicon::PO/"Attributes">

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addAutomatic>(LIST|ARRAY|STRING)

Add multiple lines to the translator's comment block.  Returns an
empty string if there are no comments.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addComment>(LIST|ARRAY|STRING)

Add multiple lines to the translator's comment block.  Returns an
empty string if there are no comments.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addFlags>(STRING)

Parse a "flags" line.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addReferences>(STRING|LIST|ARRAY)

The STRING is a blank separated list of LOCATIONS.  The LIST and
ARRAY contain separate LOCATIONs.  A LOCATION is of the form
C<filename:linenumber>.  Returns the internal HASH with references.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<automatic>( [LIST|ARRAY|STRING] )

Returns a STRING which contains the cleaned paragraph of automatically
added comments.  If an argument is specified, it will replace the current
comment.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<comment>( [LIST|ARRAY|STRING] )

Returns a STRING which contains the cleaned paragraph of translator's
comment.  If an argument is specified, it will replace the current
comment.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<format>( $language | <PAIRS|ARRAY|HASH> )

When one $language is specified, it looks whether a C<$language-format> or
C<no-$language-format> is present in the line of FLAGS.  This will return
C<1> (true) in the first case, C<0> (false) in the second case.  It will
return C<undef> (also false) in case that both are not present.

You can also specify PAIRS: the key is a language name, and the
value is either C<0>, C<1>, or C<undef>.

example: use of format()

 # getters
 if($po->format('c')) ...
 unless($po->format('perl-brace')) ...
 if(defined $po->format('java')) ...

 # setters
 $po->format(java => 1);       # results in 'java-format'
 $po->format(java => 0);       # results in 'no-java-format'
 $po->format(java => undef);   # results in ''

=item $obj-E<gt>B<fuzzy>( [BOOLEAN] )

Returns whether the translation needs human inspection.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<isActive>()

Returns whether the translation has any references, or is the header.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<keepReferencesTo>($table)

Remove all references which are not found as key in the hash $table.
Returns the number of references left.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<msgctxt>()

Returns the message context, if provided.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<msgid>()

Returns the actual msgid, which cannot be C<undef>.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<msgstr>( [$index, [STRING]] )

With a STRING, a new translation will be set.  Without STRING, a
lookup will take place.  When no plural is defined, the $index is
ignored.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<plural>( [STRING] )

Returns the actual msgid_plural, which can be C<undef>.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<references>( [STRING|LIST|ARRAY] )

Returns an unsorted list of LOCATIONS.  When options are specified,
then those will be used to replace all currently defined references.
Returns the unsorted LIST of references.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<removeReferencesTo>($filename)

Remove all the references to the indicate $filename from the list.  Returns
the number of refs left.

=back

=head2 Parsing

=over 4

=item Log::Report::Lexicon::PO-E<gt>B<fromText>( STRING, [$where] )

Parse the STRING into a new PO object.  The $where string should explain
the location of the STRING, to be used in error messages.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<toString>(%options)

Format the object into a multi-lined string.

 -Option    --Default
  nr_plurals  undef

=over 2

=item nr_plurals => INTEGER

If the number of plurals is specified, then the plural translation
list can be checked for the correct length.  Otherwise, no smart
behavior is attempted.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<useless>()

[1.02] The message-id has no references anymore B<and> no translations.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Log-Report-Lexicon distribution version 1.13,
built on May 06, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2025 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

