=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Log::Report::Lexicon::POT - manage PO files

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Log::Report::Lexicon::POT
   is a Log::Report::Lexicon::Table

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # this is usually not for end-users, See ::Extract::PerlPPI
 # using a PO table

 my $pot = Log::Report::Lexicon::POT
    ->read('po/nl.po', charset => 'utf-8')
        or die;

 my $po = $pot->msgid('msgid');
 my $po = $pot->msgid($msgid, $msgctxt);
 print $pot->nrPlurals;
 print $pot->msgstr('msgid', 3);
 print $pot->msgstr($msgid, 3, $msgctxt);
 $pot->write;  # update the file

 # fill the table, by calling the next a lot
 my $po  = Log::Report::Lexicon::PO->new(...);
 $pot->add($po);

 # creating a PO table
 $pot->write('po/nl.po')
     or die;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is reading, extending, and writing POT files.  POT files
are used to store translations in humanly readable format for most of
existing translation frameworks, like GNU gettext and Perl's Maketext.
If you only wish to access the translation, then you may use the much
more efficient L<Log::Report::Lexicon::POTcompact|Log::Report::Lexicon::POTcompact>.

The code is loosely based on Locale::PO, by Alan Schwartz.  The coding
style is a bit off the rest of C<Log::Report>, and there was a need to
sincere simplification.  Each PO record will be represented by a
L<Log::Report::Lexicon::PO|Log::Report::Lexicon::PO>.

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in Log::Report::Lexicon::Table|Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in Log::Report::Lexicon::Table|Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"METHODS">.
 
=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in Log::Report::Lexicon::Table|Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"Constructors">.
 
=over 4

=item Log::Report::Lexicon::POT-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

Create a new POT file.  The initial header is generated for you, but
it can be changed using the L<header()|Log::Report::Lexicon::POT/"Managing PO's"> method.

 -Option      --Default
  charset       'UTF-8'
  date          now
  filename      undef
  index         {}
  nr_plurals    2
  plural_alg    n!=1
  plural_forms  <constructed from nr_plurals and plural_alg>
  textdomain    <required>
  version       undef

=over 2

=item charset => STRING

The charset to be used for the createed file.  It is unwise to use anything
else than 'UTF-8', but allowed.  Before [1.09] this option was required.

=item date => STRING

Overrule the date which is included in the generated header.

=item filename => STRING

Specify an output filename.  The name can also be specified when
L<write()|Log::Report::Lexicon::POT/"Constructors"> is called.

=item index => HASH

A set of translations (L<Log::Report::Lexicon::PO|Log::Report::Lexicon::PO> objects),
with msgid as key.

=item nr_plurals => INTEGER

The number of translations each of the translation with plural form
need to have.

=item plural_alg => EXPRESSION

The algorithm to be used to calculate which translated msgstr to use.

=item plural_forms => RULE

[0.992] When this option is used, it overrules C<nr_plurals> and
C<plural_alg>.  The RULE should be a full "Plural-Forms" field.

=item textdomain => STRING

The package name, used in the directory structure to store the
PO files.

=item version => STRING

=back

=item Log::Report::Lexicon::POT-E<gt>B<read>($filename, %options)

Read the POT information from $filename.

 -Option --Default
  charset  <required>

=over 2

=item charset => STRING

The character-set which is used for the file.  You must specify
this explicitly.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<write>( [$filename|$fh], %options )

When you pass an open $fh, you are yourself responsible that
the correct character-encoding (binmode) is set.  When the write
followed a L<read()|Log::Report::Lexicon::POT/"Constructors"> or the filename was explicitly set with L<filename()|Log::Report::Lexicon::POT/"Attributes">,
then you may omit the first parameter.

 -Option     --Default
  only_active  false

=over 2

=item only_active => BOOLEAN

[1.02] Do not write records which do have a translation, but where the
msgid has disappeared from the sources.  By default, these records are
commented out (marked with '#~') but left in the file.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

Extends L<"Attributes" in Log::Report::Lexicon::Table|Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"Attributes">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<charset>()

The character-set to be used for reading and writing.  You do not need
to be aware of Perl's internal encoding for the characters.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<filename>()

Returns the $filename, as derived from L<read()|Log::Report::Lexicon::POT/"Constructors"> or specified during
initiation with L<new(filename)|Log::Report::Lexicon::POT/"Constructors">.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<index>()

Returns a HASH of all defined PO objects, organized by msgid.  Please try
to avoid using this: use L<msgid()|Log::Report::Lexicon::POT/"Managing PO's"> for lookup and L<add()|Log::Report::Lexicon::POT/"Managing PO's"> for adding
translations.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<language>()

Returns the language code, which is derived from the filename.

=back

=head2 Managing PO's

Extends L<"Managing PO's" in Log::Report::Lexicon::Table|Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"Managing PO's">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<keepReferencesTo>($table)

Remove all references which are not found as key in the hash $table.
Returns the number of references left.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<removeReferencesTo>($filename)

Remove all the references to the indicate $filename from all defined
translations.  Returns the number of refs left.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<stats>()

Returns a HASH with some statistics about this POT table.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<updated>( [$date] )

Replace the "PO-Revision-Date" with the specified $date, or the current
moment.

=back

=head3 Translation

Extends L<"Translation" in Log::Report::Lexicon::Table|Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"Translation">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<msgid>( STRING, [$msgctxt] )

Lookup the L<Log::Report::Lexicon::PO|Log::Report::Lexicon::PO> with the STRING.  If you
want to add a new translation, use L<add()|Log::Report::Lexicon::POT/"Managing PO's">.  Returns C<undef>
when not defined.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<msgstr>( $msgid, [$count, [$msgctxt]] )

Returns the translated string for $msgid.  When $count is not specified or
C<undef>, the translation string related to "1" is returned.

=back

=head3 Administration

Extends L<"Administration" in Log::Report::Lexicon::Table|Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"Administration">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<add>($po)

Add the information from a $po into this POT.  If the msgid of the $po
is already known, that is an error.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<header>( [$field, [$content]] )

The translation of a blank MSGID is used to store a MIME header, which
contains some meta-data.  When only a $field is specified, that content is
looked-up (case-insensitive) and returned.  When a $content is specified,
the knowledge will be stored.  In latter case, the header structure
may get created.  When the $content is set to C<undef>, the field will
be removed.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<nrPlurals>()

Inherited, see L<Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<pluralIndex>($count)

Inherited, see L<Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<setupPluralAlgorithm>()

Inherited, see L<Log::Report::Lexicon::Table/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<translations>( [$active] )

Returns a list with all defined L<Log::Report::Lexicon::PO|Log::Report::Lexicon::PO> objects. When
the string C<$active> is given as parameter, only objects which have
references are returned.

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Error: no filename or file-handle specified for PO

When a PO file is written, then a filename or file-handle must be
specified explicitly, or set beforehand using the L<filename()|Log::Report::Lexicon::POT/"Attributes">
method, or known because the write follows a L<read()|Log::Report::Lexicon::POT/"Constructors"> of the file.

=item Error: only acceptable parameter is 'ACTIVE'

=item Error: textdomain parameter is required

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Log-Report-Lexicon distribution version 1.09,
built on August 28, 2017. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/log-report/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

