=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Log::Report::Lexicon::Table - generic interface to translation tables

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Log::Report::Lexicon::Table is extended by
   Log::Report::Lexicon::MOTcompact
   Log::Report::Lexicon::POT
   Log::Report::Lexicon::POTcompact

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # use one of the extensions, for instance:
  my $pot = Log::Report::Lexicon::POT
     ->read('po/nl.po', charset => 'utf-8')
         or panic;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This base class defines the generic interface for translation tables.

Currently, there are three extensions:

=over 4

=item * L<Log::Report::Lexicon::POT|Log::Report::Lexicon::POT>

This is a relatively heavy implementation, used to read but also to
write PO files.  It is used by F<xgettext-perl>, for instance, to
administer the collection of discovered msgid's.

=item * L<Log::Report::Lexicon::POTcompact|Log::Report::Lexicon::POTcompact>

Light-weighted read-only access to PO-file information.

=item * L<Log::Report::Lexicon::MOTcompact|Log::Report::Lexicon::MOTcompact>

Read-only access to MO-file information.  These binary MO-files are
super efficient.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Log::Report::Lexicon::Table-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

=back

=head2 Attributes

=head2 Managing PO's

=head3 Translation

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<msgid>( STRING, [$msgctxt] )

Lookup the L<Log::Report::Lexicon::PO|Log::Report::Lexicon::PO> with the STRING.
Returns C<undef> when not defined.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<msgstr>( $msgid, [$count, $msgctxt] )

Returns the translated string for $msgid.  When not specified, $count is 1.

=back

=head3 Administration

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<add>($po)

Add the information from a $po into this POT.  If the msgid of the $po
is already known, that is an error.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<header>($field)

The translation of a blank MSGID is used to store a MIME header, which
contains some meta-data.  The $field value is looked-up (case-insensitive)
and returned.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<nrPlurals>()

Returns the number of plurals, when not known then '2'.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<pluralIndex>($count)

Returns the msgstr index used to translate a value of $count.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<setupPluralAlgorithm>()

This method needs to be called after setting (reading or creating) a new
table header, to interpret the plural algorithm as specified in the
C<Plural-Forms> header field.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<translations>( [$active] )

Returns a list with all defined L<Log::Report::Lexicon::PO|Log::Report::Lexicon::PO> objects. When
the string C<$active> is given as parameter, only objects which have
references are returned.

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Error: only acceptable parameter is 'ACTIVE'

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Log-Report-Lexicon distribution version 1.08,
built on June 29, 2017. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/log-report/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the Artistic license.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/artistic.html>

