

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Acme::Include::Data - how to include data files with a CPAN module

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This is a demonstration module which exists for the purpose of
examining its source code rather than for use.

=head1 VERSION

This documents Acme::Include::Data version 0.05
corresponding to git commit L<888db01e4ebcd8509cf550a8be559e728425126b|https://github.com/benkasminbullock/Acme-Include-Data/commit/888db01e4ebcd8509cf550a8be559e728425126b> released on Thu Feb 2 09:04:20 2017 +0900.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a demonstration module which demonstrates how to include a
data file with a Perl module and how to read it in at run time.

If you are a CPAN author or use the CPAN-style tools to distribute
your data, you may have wondered how to include data with your Perl
distribution.

Any file under lib in the distribution is bundled into the
distribution by F<Makefile.PL>. So if your distribution is called
F<Acme::Include::Data>, then a file called
F<lib/Acme/Include/this-is-a-data-file.txt> is automatically included
into the distribution.

To read the data file in, simply use __FILE__: 

    my $data = __FILE__;
    
    # Make whatever substitutions are necessary:
    
    $data =~ s/Data\.pm$/this-is-a-data-file.txt/;
    
    # Read the data in:
    
    open my $in, "<", $data or die $!;
    my $text = '';
    while (<$in>) {
        $text .= $_;
    }
    

(This example is included as L<F<read-data.pl>|https://api.metacpan.org/source/BKB/Acme-Include-Data-0.05/examples/read-data.pl> in the distribution.)


=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 yes_it_works

This is a function for testing the module.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Please see L<this blog
post|http://www.lemoda.net/perl/data-in-distro/> for more explanation.


=head1 AUTHOR

Ben Bullock, <bkb@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENCE

This package and associated files are copyright (C) 
2014-2017
Ben Bullock.

You can use, copy, modify and redistribute this package and associated
files under the Perl Artistic Licence or the GNU General Public
Licence.



