=head1 NAME

Number::Phone::UK::DetailedLocations - more detailed location information for Number::Phone::UK

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Just install it, and Number::Phone::UK will magically pick it up and use it
instead of the restricted data set distributed with it.

=head1 IMPORTANT NOTE WHAT YOU SHOULD READ

All previous versions had a dependency on the excellent DBM::Deep module.
Unfortunately its file format changed when it hit version 1.0.  Therefore
this release has an old version of DBM::Deep bundled with it, which you
may use in parallel with the new version.

=head1 ACCURACY

The data in this add-on module is more accurate than that distributed with
Number::Phone because Number::Phone only has location data for one of the
several exchanges serving each area code.  This is therefore a superset of
that data.

The latitude and longitude data has several more significant figures than it
deserves, simply because that's what was in the datasource I got it from.

=head1 LIMITATIONS/BUGS/FEEDBACK

This module contains the locations of most BT phone exchanges, and the
number ranges handled by them.  However, the data is (at the time of writing)
nearly a year old.  I can't find a more recent source.  Thankfully, this
sort of data doesn't go stale quickly.  New exchanges hardly ever open, and
while new number ranges may be assigned to exchanges, they will for at least
a few years be a small proportion of all numbers.

If you find any errors, please report them by email.

=head1 LICENCE

You may use, modify and distribute this software under the same terms as
perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

David Cantrell E<lt>david@cantrell.org.ukE<gt>

Copyright 2006 - 2007

=cut

