=pod

=head1 CONSTANTS

The Turbo Vision framework defines a large set of constants used to
describe behavior rather than encode logic.

Constants are used for palettes, flags, command identifiers and event
classification. They are central to the framework because many design
decisions are expressed declaratively through constant values.

Understanding the naming scheme is usually more important than
memorizing individual values.

=head2 Naming Conventions

Turbo Vision follows strict naming conventions to make source code
readable and predictable.

The most relevant conventions are:

=over 4

=item 1.

Type names begin with an uppercase C<T>.

=item 2.

Registration records for stream I/O begin with an uppercase C<R>.

=item 3.

Identifiers starting with lowercase letters denote constants. The
prefix identifies the functional area of the constant.

=back

The following table lists the standard constant prefixes used
throughout the framework:

  Prefix  Definition              Example
  ------  ----------------------- --------------------------------------
  ap      Application palette     apColor
  bf      Button flag             bfDefault
  cp      Color palettes          cpListViewer
  cm      Command constant        cmOk
  co      Collection codes        coOverflow
  dm      Drag mode               dmDragGrow
  ev      Event constant          evCommand
  gf      Grow mode flag          gfGrowAll
  hc      Help context            hcNoContext
  kb      Keyboard code constant  kbAltA
  mb      Mouse button constant   mbRightButton
  of      Option flag             ofTopSelect
  R       Registration record     RCollection
  sb      Scroll bar              sbRightArrow
  sf      State flag              sfActive
  sm      Screen mode constant    smFont8x8
  st      Stream code             stOk
  T       Object type             TCollection
  wf      Window flags            wfMove
  wp      Window color palettes   wpBlueWindow

=head2 bfXXXX

Button Flags constants

The C<bfXXXX> values are passed as a bit mask to C<< TButton->new >> and specify 
button attributes, as shown in the table:

  Constant        Value   Usage
  --------------- ------- --------------------------------------------------
  bfNormal        0x00    non-default button
  bfDefault       0x01    This will be the default button
  bfLeftAdjust    0x02    If OR'd with either bfNormal or bfDefault, 
                          the button label will be left justified instead of 
                          centered.
  bfBroadcast     0x04    If this bit is set, when a button is pressed, 
                          TButton sends an evBroadcast message. If not set, 
                          TButton inserts a new event with putEvent.

B<Note>: It's up to the programmer to ensure that each C<TGroup> entity 
(C<TDialog> is descended from C<TGroup>) has only one default button.

=head2 cmXXXX

Command constants

The C<cmXXXX> constants are the predefined commands within Turbo Vision and are
passed to C<handleEvent> methods in the C<< $event->{command} >> field. 

Constant values of C<0..99>, and C<256..999> are reserved for use by 
Turbo Vision. Your applications can define command constants in the range 
C<100..255>, and C<1000..65535>.

  Constant        Value   Usage
  --------------- ------- ---------------------------------------------------
  cmValid             0   Message passed to TView->valid
  cmQuit              1   Upon receipt of cmQuit, TProgram->handleEvent
                          terminates the application. The Alt-X keystroke is
                          normally mapped to the cmQuit command.
  cmError             2   No object should handle this command. Instead, use
                          cmError as a way of trapping any unimplemented
                          commands (i.e. while the program is still in
                          development).
  cmMenu              3   This internal command is used to initiate menu
                          selection. The status line, as shown in Chapter
                          14, typically maps the F10 key to cmMenu. See
                          TStatusLine.
  cmClose             4   For mode less windows, clicking in a window's close
                          box causes the cmClose command to be sent to the
                          window and the window's Close method is called. To
                          prevent closing a window, you can intercept the
                          cmClose command in your derived window's
                          handleEvent method (also see the wfClose
                          constants). Typically a status line item such as
                          Alt-F3 is mapped to the cmClose command. The
                          TVSHELL1 program in Chapter 14 uses the F3 key 
                          to generate cmClose for opening and closing
                          subdirectories.
  cmZoom              5   The cmZoom flag is generated when the window is
                          zoomed. You can prevent zooming by intercepting
                          the cmZoom command (also see the wfZoom constant).
                          By convention, Turbo Vision applications often use
                          the F5 key to denote a zoom.
  cmResize            6   cmResize is sent when a window is resized. Also
                          see wfMove and wfGrow. By convention, Ctrl-F5 is
                          often used to zoom a window.
  cmNext              7   Causes the last window on the desktop to be moved
                          to in front of all the others. F6 is often used as
                          a short cut key for this command.
  cmPrev              8   Moves the first window on the desktop to behind all
                          the other windows. Shift-F6 is often used as a
                          short cut key for this command.
  cmOk                9   In a dialog, this value is returned if the Okay
                          button was pressed.
  cmCancel            10  In a dialog, this value is returned if the Cancel
                          button was pressed, or if the keyboard Escape key
                          was pressed, or a dialog's close icon was clicked.
  cmYes               11  In a dialog, this is a standard value to be
                          returned by a Yes button.
  cmNo                12  In a dialog, this is the standard value to be
                          returned by a No button.
  cmDefault           13  Is used to indicate a "default" button selection.
  cmReceivedFocus     50  Together with cmReleasedFocus, this command is sent
                          by TView->setState to inform peer views of a change
                          in focus. Views may use these messages to change
                          their appearance (for example, when a button loses
                          focus, it is no longer highlighted).
  cmReleasedFocus     51  See above.
  cmCommandSetChanged 52  Whenever enableCommands, disableCommands or
                          setCommands changes the command set, this message
                          is broadcast to every view's handleEvent method,
                          giving them a chance to redraw themselves if the
                          command set change affects how they should appear.
  cmScrollbarChanged  53  When a scroll bar's position indicator moves, the
                          scrollbar sends this broadcast message to its
                          owner.
  cmScrollbarClicked  54  When the mouse is clicked on a Scroll bar, the
                          scroll bar broadcasts this message to its owner.
  cmSelectWindowNum   55  This broadcast message is sent when the keyboard
                          keys Alt-1 through Alt-9 are pressed to select a
                          specific window. The window whose TWindow.Number
                          field matches the selection number (passed in
                          $event->{infoInt}), responds by selecting itself 
                          with TView->select.
  cmListItemSelected  56  Whenever an item in a list viewer is selected, the
                          TListViewer sends this as an evBroadcast message.
  cmRecordHistory     60  When received by a THistory object, this message
                          causes it to record the contents of the TInputLine
                          object that it owns.

=head2 coXXXX

Collection Error constants

When a C<TCollection> error occurs, the method C<< TCollection->error >> is 
called, with the Code parameter having one of the values shown in the table.

  Constant     Value  Usage
  ------------ ------ ---------------------------------------------------
  coIndexError    -1  Means that the index is out of range. In this
                      case, the Info parameter of Error contains the
                      invalid index.
  coOverflow      -2  The collection could not be expanded any further.

=head2 dmXXXX

Drag Mode constants

The C<< TView->dragMode >> field controls whether or not a view can be dragged 
or have its size changed. The C<dragMode> field is stored in a scalar, with the 
bits set by the constants shown in the following table, and C<$limits> is a 
C<TRect> parameter to C<< TView->dragView >>.

  Constant        Value    Usage
  --------------- -------- --------------------------------------------------
  dmDragMove      0x01     Allow the view to move.
  dmDragGrow      0x02     Allow the view to change size.
  dmLimitLoX      0x10     The left hand side cannot move outside $limits.
  dmLimitLoY      0x20     The top side cannot move outside $limits.
  dmLimitHiX      0x40     The right hand side cannot move outside $limits.
  dmLimitHiY      0x80     The bottom side cannot move outside $limits.
  dmLimitAll      0xF0     None of the view can move outside $limits.

=head2 evXXXX

=head3 Event constants

The C<evXXXX> constants are used to designate event types and event masks,
particularly as used in the What field of an event record but also in other
places within Turbo Vision.

  Constant        Value   Usage
  --------------- ------- ---------------------------------------------------
  evMouseDown     0x0001  Mouse button pressed
  evMouseUp       0x0002  Mouse button released
  evMouseMove     0x0004  Mouse has changed location
  evMouseAuto     0x0008  This event occurs periodically while the mouse
                          button is held down
  evKeyDown       0x0010  A key has been pressed.
  evCommand       0x0100  The event type is a command event.
  evBroadcast     0x0200  The event type is a broadcast event.
  evNothing       0x0000  This event was already handled.
  evMouse         0x000F  The event type is a mouse event.
  evKeyboard      0x0010  The event type is a keyboard event.
  evMessage       0xFF00  The event is a message event, which can be either
                          user defined, an evCommand or evBroadcast event.

B<See>: C<positionalEvents> and C<focusedEvents>.

=head2 focusedEvents

    use constant focusedEvents => evKeyboard | evCommand;

C<focusedEvents> contains a bit mask for identifying events that are focused. 
Any event that is neither a focused event nor a positional event, is classed as 
a broadcast event. 

=head2 gfXXXX

C<< TView->growMode >> field constants

The C<gfXXXX> constants set the C<< TView->growMode >> field, which controls 
how a view grows in relation to the view that owns it.

  Constant      Value     Usage
  -------------- -------- ---------------------------------------------------
  gfGrowLoX      0x01     The left side of the view will stay a constant
                          distance from its owner's left side.
  gfGrowLoY      0x02     The top of the view will stay a constant distance
                          from its owner's top.
  gfGrowHiX      0x04     The right side of the view will stay a constant
                          distance from its owner's right side.
  gfGrowHiY      0x08     The bottom of the view will stay a constant distance
                          from its owner's bottom side.
  gfGrowRel      0x10     The view will maintain its size relative to the
                          owner. This flag should only be used on TWindow
                          derived objects and is intended for keeping windows
                          adjusted relative to their owner when switching
                          between 25 line mode and 43/50 line screen modes.
  gfGrowAll      0x0F     The view should maintain the same size and move with
                          respect to the lower right corner of the owner.

=head2 kbXXXX

Keyboard constants

The C<kbXXXX> constants are divided into two groups: a small group for 
detecting keyboard shift states, and a large group as equates for the 
non-standard keystrokes such as function and Alt keys.

=head3 Keyboard Shift State constants

  Constant        Value   Usage
  --------------- ------- ---------------------------------------------------
  kbRightShift    0x0001  Bit set if the right shift key down
  kbLeftShift     0x0002  Bit set if the left shift key down
  kbCtrlShift     0x0004  Bit set if the Ctrl key is down
  kbAltShift      0x0008  Bit set if the Alt key is down
  kbScrollState   0x0010  Bit set if the Scroll Lock is down
  kbNumState      0x0020  Bit set if the Num Lock is down
  kbCapsState     0x0040  Bit set if the Caps Lock down
  kbInsState      0x0080  Bit set if keyboard is in Ins Lock state

The keyboard shift state constants are used as a bit mask to test a location in
low memory at C<0x40:0x17> for the status of various keyboard keys, such as the 
Ctrl or Shift key. For example, to see if the keyboard is producing shifted
characters, declare an absolute variable at C<0x40:0x17> and test the bits like
this:

  my $keyboardShifts = THardwareInfo->getShiftState();
  ...
  if ( $keyboardShifts & ( kbRightShift | kbLeftShift | kbCapsState ) )

=head3 Keyboard ScanCode constants

Use these constants to check for specific keystroke values in the 
C<< TEvent->{keyCode} >> field. For example,

  if ( $event->{keyCode} == kbPgDn ) {
    # handle page down function
    ...;
  }

=head3 Alt-Ch key code constants

  Constant    Value       Constant    Value
  ----------- ----------- ----------- -------
  kbAltA      0x1E00      kbAltN      0x3100
  kbAltB      0x3000      kbAltO      0x1800
  kbAltC      0x2E00      kbAltP      0x1900
  kbAltD      0x2000      kbAltQ      0x1000
  kbAltE      0x1200      kbAltR      0x1300
  kbAltF      0x2100      kbAltS      0x1F00
  kbAltG      0x2200      kbAltT      0x1400
  kbAltH      0x2300      kbAltU      0x1600
  kbAltI      0x1700      kbAltV      0x2F00
  kbAltJ      0x2400      kbAltW      0x1100
  kbAltK      0x2500      kbAltX      0x2D00
  kbAltL      0x2600      kbAltY      0x1500
  kbAltM      0x3200      kbAltZ      0x2C00

=head3 Ctrl and special key code constants

  Constant    Value       Constant    Value
  ----------- ----------- ----------- -------
  kbAltEqual  0x8300      kbEnd       0x4F00
  kbAltMinus  0x8200      bEnter      0x1C0D
  kbAltSpace  0x0200      kbEsc       0x011B
  kbBack      0x0E08      kbGrayMinus 0x4A2D *
  kbCtrlBack  0x0E7F      kbHome      0x4700
  kbCtrlDel   0x0600      kbIns       0x5200
  kbCtrlEnd   0x7500      kbLeft      0x4B00 *
  kbCtrlEnter 0x1C0A      kbNoKey     0x0000
  kbCtrlHome  0x7700      kbPgDn      0x5100
  kbCtrlIns   0x0400      kbPgUp      0x4900
  kbCtrlLeft  0x7300      kbGrayPlus  0x4E2B
  kbCtrlPgDn  0x7600      kbRight     0x4D00 *
  kbCtrlPgUp  0x8400      kbShiftDel  0x0700
  kbCtrlPrtSc 0x7200      kbShiftIns  0x0500
  kbCtrlRight 0x7400      kbShiftTab  0x0F00
  kbDel       0x5300      kbTab       0x0F09
  kbDown      0x5000      kbUp        0x4800

[*] C<kbGrayMinus> and C<kbGrayPlus> are the - and + keys on the numeric keypad.
C<kbLeft> and C<kbRight> are the arrow keys.

=head3 Alt-number key code constants

  Constant    Value       Constant    Value
  ----------- ----------- ----------- -------
  kbAlt1      0x7800      kbAlt6      0x7D00
  kbAlt2      0x7900      kbAlt7      0x7E00
  kbAlt3      0x7A00      kbAlt8      0x7F00
  kbAlt4      0x7B00      kbAlt9      0x8000
  kbAlt5      0x7C00      kbAlt0      0x8100

=head3 Function key code constants

  Constant    Value       Constant    Value
  ----------- ----------- ----------- -------
  kbF1        0x3B00      kbF6        0x4000
  kbF2        0x3C00      kbF7        0x4100
  kbF3        0x3D00      kbF8        0x4200
  kbF4        0x3E00      kbF9        0x4300
  kbF5        0x3F00      kbF10       0x4400

=head3 Shift-function key code constants

  Constant    Value       Constant    Value
  ----------- ----------- ----------- -------
  kbShiftF1   0x5400      kbShiftF6   0x5900
  kbShiftF2   0x5500      kbShiftF7   0x5A00
  kbShiftF3   0x5600      kbShiftF8   0x5B00
  kbShiftF4   0x5700      kbShiftF9   0x5C00
  kbShiftF5   0x5800      kbShiftF10  0x5D00

=head3 Ctrl-function key code constants

  Constant    Value       Constant    Value
  ----------- ----------- ----------- -------
  kbCtrlF1    0x5E00      kbCtrlF6    0x6300
  kbCtrlF2    0x5F00      kbCtrlF7    0x6400
  kbCtrlF3    0x6000      kbCtrlF8    0x6500
  kbCtrlF4    0x6100      kbCtrlF9    0x6600
  kbCtrlF5    0x6200      kbCtrlF10   0x6700

=head3 Alt-function key codes

  Constant    Value       Constant    Value
  ----------- ----------- ----------- -------
  kbAltF1     0x6800      kbAltF6     0x6D00
  kbAltF2     0x6900      kbAltF7     0x6E00
  kbAltF3     0x6A00      kbAltF8     0x6F00
  kbAltF4     0x6B00      kbAltF9     0x7000
  kbAltF5     0x6C00      kbAltF10    0x7100

=head2 maxCollectionSize 

  use constant maxCollectionSize => int( (UINT_MAX - 16) / $Config{ptrsize} );

C<maxCollectionSize> sets the maximum number of elements that can be put into a
collection.

=head2 maxViewWidth

  use constant maxViewWidth => 132;

Determines the maximum width of a view.

=head2 mbXXXX

Mouse Button constants

The C<mbXXXX> constants are used to test the C<< TEvent->{buttons} >> field of 
a C<TEvent> hash to determine if the left or right button was pressed.

  Constant        Value   Usage
  --------------- ------- ---------------------------------------------------
  mbLeftButton    0x01    Value if left button was pressed.
  mbRightButton   0x02    Value if right button was pressed.

B<See>: C<TEvent>

=head2 mfXXXX

=head3 Table of Message Box Types

  Constant        Value   Usage
  --------------- ------- ---------------------------------------------------
  mfWarning       0x0000  Display a warning type message box
  mfError         0x0001  Display an error type message box
  mfInformation   0x0002  Display an Information box
  mfConfirmation  0x0003  Display a confirmation box

=head3 Table of Button flags

  Constant        Value   Usage
  --------------- ------- ---------------------------------------------------
  mfYesButton     0x0100  Show a Yes button
  mfNoButton      0x0200  Show a No button
  mfOkButton      0x0400  Show an Okay button
  mfCancelButton  0x0800  Show a Cancel button
  mfYesNoCancel           Show a Yes, No and a Cancel button
  mfOkCancel              Show an Okay and a Cancel button

B<Note>: C<messageBox> only works within Turbo Vision applications. Do not 
attempt to use it in non-Turbo Vision applications.

B<See>: C<sprintf>, C<messageBoxRect>, C<TStaticText>

=head2 ofXXXX 

TView->options field bit positions constants

The C<ofXXXX> constants select options available in all TView-derived objects. 
Setting the bit position to a 1 sets the indicated attribute; clearing the bit 
position to 0 disables the indicated attributes.

  Constant        Value   Usage
  --------------- ------- -----------------------------------------------------
  ofSelectable    0x0001  If this bit is set, then the view can be selected 
                          with a mouse. While most views are normally 
                          selectable, this bit gives the option to make the 
                          item non-selectable. An example of an non-selectable 
                          view is TStaticText items.
  ofTopSelect     0x0002  When set, this view will move to the topmost view 
                          whenever it is selected. This option should normally
                          be set only for window objects.
  ofFirstClick    0x0004  When a mouse click is used to select a view, the 
                          click can be optionally passed to the view after it 
                          is selected. For example, within a dialog box, if 
                          you click on a button, you not only wish to set the 
                          focus to that button, but you probably also want to 
                          activate the button at the same time.
  ofFramed        0x0008  When set, the view has visible frame drawn around 
                          it.
  ofPreProcess    0x0010  This option enables views other than the focused 
                          view to have a chance at processing an $event. 
                          Normally, events are passed down the focus-chain, 
                          however, events are also sent to any sub-views 
                          (in Z-order) that have this bit set, giving them a 
                          chance to process the $event. 
  ofPostProcess   0x0020  When this bit is set, sub-views are given a chance 
                          after the focused view, to process events that have 
                          not yet cleared.
  ofBuffered      0x0040  Views can optionally store an image of themselves in
                          a memory buffer. When the view needs to be redrawn 
                          on the screen, it can rapidly copy itself from the 
                          buffer, rather than recreate the drawing on the 
                          screen. To enable cache buffering of the view's 
                          displayable image, set the ofBuffered bit to on. 
                          The buffers are stored in special, disposable memory
                          caches. When the memory manager runs out of memory, 
                          these cache buffers are automatically deleted to 
                          free up more memory space, and the view's recreate 
                          their displayable images as they would without the 
                          ofBuffered option. If you set the ofBuffered option,
                          be sure to call the TGroup method's lock and unlock 
                          to prevent copying of the screen image to the 
                          display until all of the sub-view's have drawn 
                          themselves.
  ofTileable      0x0080  Generally, you will want window objects to be either
                          tileable or cascadable so that the desktop can 
                          automatically rearrange the windows, if desired. 
                          If you wish to disable this function for a 
                          particular view, clear this bit position in the 
                          TView->options field. When disabled, the view will 
                          not move on the screen, even if other views become 
                          tiled or cascaded. See also: TDeskTop->cascade, 
                          TDeskTop->tile.
  ofCenterX       0x0100  When this bit is set, the insertion of the view 
                          causes the view to be horizontally centered.
  ofCenterY       0x0200  When this bit is set, a view is centered in the 
                          vertical direction (especially useful when switching
                          between 25 and 43/50 line modes).
  ofCentered      0x0300  Same as setting both C<ofCenterX> and C<ofCenterY>: 
                          centers the view in both vertical and horizontal 
                          directions.

=head2 positionalEvents

  use constant positionalEvents => evMouse;

You can force events and messages to route as if they are positional events by 
setting positionalEvents to the event's C<evXXXX> constant. By adding your own 
event classes (by setting the bit patterns) you can create broadcast messages 
that route the same as a positional C<$event>.

B<See>: C<focusedEvents>

=head2 sbXXXX

=head3 Scrollbar constants

  Constant          Value   Usage
  ----------------- ------- ---------------------------------------------------
  sbLeftArrow       0       The horizontal scroll bar's left arrow.
  sbRightArrow      1       Horizontal scroll bar's right arrow.
  sbPageLeft        2       The page area to the left of the position indicator.
  sbPageRight       3       The page indicator to the right of the indicator.
  sbUpArrow         4       Vertical scroll bar's up arrow.
  sbDownArrow       5       Vertical scroll bar's down arrow.
  sbPageUp          6       Paging area above the position indicator.
  sbPageDown        7       Paging area below the position indicator.
  sbIndicator       8       Position indicator on the scroll bar.
  sbHorizontal      0x0000  The scroll bar is horizontal.
  sbVertical        0x0001  The scroll bar is vertical.
  sbHandleKeyboard  0x0002  Scroll bar accepts keyboard commands.

Use one of the first 9 C<sbXXXX> constants as a parameter to 
C<< TScrollBar->scrollStep >>. The last 3 C<sbXXXX> constants, C<sbHorizontal>, 
C<sbVertical>, C<sbHandleKeyboard> are used to specify a horizontal, vertical, 
or keyboard accessible scrollbar when a scroll bar is created using the 
C<< TWindow->standardScrollBar >> method.

=head2 selectMode

Constants for selectMode

  use constant {
    normalSelect    => 0,
    enterSelect     => 1,
    leaveSelect     => 2,
  };

An internal value used by Turbo Vision.

=head2 sfXXXX

State Flag constants

Use TView->setState to set the state bits, from the table below, into a
TView's state field. Example usage:

    $view->setState( sfCursorIns, true );

where the first parameter is the state value to change, and the second
parameter is C<true> to enable the selected condition, or C<false> to disable 
the selected condition. Some of the bits are not normally set by the programmer
but rather by methods in Turbo Vision. You can, however, read and test the
values in TView->state directly.

  Constant    Value   Usage
  ----------- ------- ---------------------------------------------------------
  sfVisible   0x0001  Set when the view is visible in front of its owner (for
                      example, a button on a dialog) but note that a visible
                      view's owner may itself be hidden from view. Call
                      TView->exposed to determine if a view is actually 
                      visible  on the screen, and use TView->hide to clear 
                      this bit and  hide the view, and TView->show to set this 
                      bit and make the view visible.
  sfCursorVis 0x0002  Set when the view's cursor is visible. Use
                      TView->showCursor to make the cursor visible and set 
                      this bit, or TView->hideCursor to hide the cursor and 
                      clear this bit.
  sfCursorIns 0x0004  Set when the cursor is a solid block (the "insert" 
                      cursor), clear when the cursor is an underscore (the 
                      "overstrike" cursor). Call TView->blockCursor to set 
                      this bit, and TView->normalCursor to clear the bit.
  sfShadow    0x0008  Set when the view has a shadow.
  sfActive    0x0010  Set whenever the view is an active window or a subview
                      within an active window. For example, when using the app
                      to edit multiple files, only the editor that you are
                      currently using is the active window.
  sfSelected  0x0020  Set when this view is selected. (See TView->selected).
  sfFocused   0x0040  If the view is part of the focus chain (see Chapter 13,
                      "More Turbo Vision Features" in the Borland Pascal
                      Developer's Guide), then this bit is set.
  sfDragging  0x0080  Set whenever the view is being dragged.
  sfDisabled  0x0100  Set if the view has been disabled and is no longer
                      processing events.
  sfModal     0x0200  Whenever a view is displayed using the execView call, 
                      that view becomes a modal view (as compared to a view 
                      that has been inserted into the desktop). This bit is 
                      set when the view is the modal view and controls how 
                      events are sent through the view hierarchy.
  sfExposed   0x0800  Set when a view is possibly visible on the screen. Don't
                      check this flag directly because a visible view can 
                      still be hidden due to clipping. Instead, call 
                      TView->exposed to determine if the view is actually 
                      visible.

B<See>: C<blockCursor>, C<exposed>, C<hide>, C<hideCursor>,
C<normalCursor>, C<setState>, C<show>, C<showCursor> from C<TView>.

=head2 smXXXX

Screen Mode constants

Use the constants from the table below when selecting Black & White, Color or
Monochrome color palettes, or switching between 25 and 43- or 50 line display
modes. 


  Constant  Value   Usage
  --------- ------- --------------------------------------------------
  smBW80    0x0002  Black and white/gray scale
  smCO80    0x0003  Color mode
  smMono    0x0004  Monochrome mode
  smFont8x8 0x0100  43 or 50 line modes

B<See>: C<< TScreen->setVideoMode >>, C<< TScreen->screenMode >>, 
C<< TProgram->setScreenMode >>

=head2 wfXXXX

TWindow flags

  Constant  Value   Usage
  --------- ------- --------------------------------------------------
  wfMove    0x01    When bit is set, the window can be moved.
  wfGrow    0x02    When the bit is set, the window can be resized and has a
                    "grow" icon in the lower right corner.  If you clear this
                    bit you can prevent a window from being resized.
  wfClose   0x04    Set this bit to add a close icon in the upper left corner
                    of a window.  Clear the bit to eliminate the icon.
  wfZoom    0x08    When this bit is set, the window contains a zoom icon for
                    zooming a window to full size.

B<See>: TWindow

=head2 wnNoNumber

    use constant wnNoNumber => 0;

When ever a C<< TWindow->number >> field contains this value, it means that the
window has no number.  Windows that have no number do not display any
number in the upper right corner, nor can they be selected with the
Alt-number quick key selection for switching between windows numbered C<1>
through C<9>.

=cut
