=pod

=head1 INTRODUCTION

=head2 TUI-Vision

Starting in 2025, I made the previously private project public after 
successfully porting the Turbo Vision C++ framework to Perl for the target 
platform Windows 10 and 11 (after two failed attempts, see commits history for 
details). 

=head3 Installation and Usage

The port can be installed via CPAN (Comprehensive Perl Archive Network). Simply
run the following command:

  cpan install TurboVision

A simple example to create an application with Turbo Vision in Perl:

  use TUI::App;

  my $app = TApplication->new();
  $app->run();

=head2 Key Features of TUI-Vision

=over

=item B<Compatibility>

The port supports 32-bit and 64-bit Strawberry Perl versions >= 5.10 and covers 
a wide range of Windows systems (Please note that not all combinations of 
Windows versions and Perl versions could be checked by me).

=item B<User Interfaces>

All original user interface elements such as edit fields, list boxes, 
checkboxes, radio buttons, and menus are available in Perl and offer full mouse 
support (in the future, so please don't be angry that this is in progress; see 
L<Coverage|/Source Module Inventory>).

=item B<Extensibility>

A I<Moo/s/e> based toolkit was used to ensure that the applications remain 
efficient and portable. The toolkit enables developers to extend the 
functionality of TUI-Vision easily and efficiently. The L<UNIVERSAL::Object> 
package (by default), L<Moo>, L<Moos> and L<Moose> are currently supported. 

L<Moo> and L<Moose> are widely used libraries with a well-known API. It is 
important to note that L<Moo> and L<Moose> are not required as prerequisites! 
The default toolkit and L<Moos> is compatible for our API and implemented 
in pure Perl. 

It's up to you what you want to use. Simply C<use Moo> in your application, 
instead of C<use TUI::toolkit> if you want to use L<Moo>. TUI-Vision will then 
use L<Moo> in its entirety (the same applies to L<Moose> and L<Moos>, of 
course). 

=back

=head3 Documentation and Support

Detailed documentation and examples can be found in the CPAN or GitHub 
repository of this port.

Please note that this is a very recent version of the port of the 
Turbo Vision C++ framework to Perl. Although I have done my best to create a 
stable and functional version, there may still be bugs and instabilities.

However, I do my best to answer questions and bug fixes quickly and reliably. 
Your feedback is extremely valuable to continuously improve the quality and 
stability of this port. Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any 
problems or questions. For this use the GitHub issue tracker and the Github 
discussion channel.

I hope this port will facilitate the development of text-based applications in 
Perl on Windows systems and look forward to feedback and contributions from the 
developer community.

=head1 Copyright and License

Copyright (c) 1990-1994, 1997 by Borland International

Copyright (c) 2021-2026 the AUTHORS and CONTRIBUTORS as listed in the sources.

This software is licensed under the MIT license (see the LICENSE file, which is 
part of the distribution). 

=cut
