=pod

=head1 PORTING NOTES

This document describes the porting of Borland Turbo Vision to Perl.
It focuses on implementation status, class mapping and technical
considerations arising from differences between C++ and Perl.

This document is primarily intended for maintainers and contributors.

The TUI framework is based on the original Turbo Vision 2.0 C++ sources.
The goal of the port is conceptual compatibility rather than a
mechanical translation of code.

Turbo Vision classes are mapped to Perl modules in a mostly one-to-one
fashion.

This port is based on the original codebase of Borland C++ 4.02
(Turbo Vision 2.0 sources including bug fixes by Eric Woodruff: 
L<tv2fixed.zip|http://www.sigala.it/sergio/tvision/source/tv2fixed.zip>).
In addition, assembler routines that have been ported to C++ come from 
I<magiblot>'s implementation I<"A modern port of Turbo Vision 2.0.">.

=head2 Class Implementation Status

The following table provides an overview of the implementation status
of major Turbo Vision classes in the Perl port. The status reflects
practical usability rather than theoretical completeness.

 Status legend:
  [x] Implemented
  [o] Partially implemented
  [ ] Not implemented

The status table is intended as a practical guide rather than a strict
feature checklist.

The meanings of the status indicators are as follows:

=over 4

=item [x] Implemented

The class is usable for typical applications. Core functionality is
present and stable. Some optional or rarely used features may still be
missing, but the class can be relied upon in normal use.

=item [o] Partially implemented

The class exists and provides limited functionality. Common use cases
may work, but parts of the API, platform-specific behavior or advanced
features are missing or incomplete. Use with care.

=item [ ] Not implemented

The class does not exist in the Perl port. References to this class are
documented for transparency and orientation only. No compatibility is
provided.

=back

The table focuses on practical relevance. A class marked as implemented
does not imply full parity with the original C++ version in every
detail.

=head3 Core Primitives

 Class              Perl Module                  Status
 ------------------ ---------------------------- ------
 TObject            TUI::Objects::Object         [x]
 TPoint             TUI::Objects::Point          [x]
 TRect              TUI::Objects::Rect           [x]
 TDrawBuffer        TUI::Views::DrawBuffer       [x]
 TPalette           TUI::Views::Palette          [x]
 TCommandSet        TUI::Views::CommandSet       [x]

=head3 Event System

 Class              Perl Module                  Status
 ------------------ ---------------------------- ------
 TEvent             TUI::Drivers::Event          [x]
 KeyDownEvent       TUI::Drivers::Event          [x]
 MouseEvent         TUI::Drivers::Event          [x]
 MessageEvent       TUI::Drivers::Event          [x]
 TEventQueue        TUI::Drivers::EventQueue     [x]

=head3 Driver Layer

 Class              Perl Module                  Status
 ------------------ ---------------------------- ------
 THWMouse           TUI::Drivers::HWMouse        [o]
 TMouse             TUI::Drivers::Mouse          [x]
 TSystemError       TUI::Drivers::SystemError    [o]
 TScreen            TUI::Drivers::Screen         [o]
 TDisplay           TUI::Drivers::Display        [o]
 THardwareInfo      TUI::Drivers::HardwareInfo   [o]

Win32 Console Driver, implemented in C<TUI::Drivers::HardwareInfo::Win32>.

=head3 View Hierarchy

 Class              Perl Module                  Status
 ------------------ ---------------------------- ------
 TView              TUI::Views::View             [x]
 TGroup             TUI::Views::Group            [x]
 TFrame             TUI::Views::Frame            [x]
 TScrollBar         TUI::Views::ScrollBar        [x]
 TScroller          TUI::Views::Scroller         [x]
 TListViewer        TUI::Views::ListViewer       [x]

=head3 Application Framework

 Class              Perl Module                  Status
 ------------------ ---------------------------- ------
 TBackground        TUI::App::Background         [x]
 TDeskInit          TUI::App::DeskInit           [x]
 TDeskTop           TUI::App::DeskTop            [x]
 TProgInit          TUI::App::ProgInit           [x]
 TProgram           TUI::App::Program            [x]
 TApplication       TUI::App::Application        [x]
 TWindowInit        TUI::Views::WindowInit       [x]
 TWindow            TUI::Views::Window           [x]
 TDialog            TUI::Dialogs::Dialog         [x]


=head3 Dialog Controls

Buttons and Clusters

 Class              Perl Module                   Status
 ------------------ ----------------------------- ------
 TButton            TUI::Dialogs::Button          [x]
 TSItem             TUI::Dialogs::StrItem         [x]
 TCluster           TUI::Dialogs::Cluster         [x]
 TRadioButtons      TUI::Dialogs::RadioButtons    [x]
 TCheckBoxes        TUI::Dialogs::CheckBoxes      [x]
 TMultiCheckBoxes   TUI::Dialogs::MultiCheckBoxes [x]

Input and Text

 Class              Perl Module                  Status
 ------------------ ---------------------------- ------
 TInputLine         TUI::Dialogs::InputLine      [x]
 TStaticText        TUI::Dialogs::StaticText     [x]
 TParamText         TUI::Dialogs::ParamText      [x]
 TLabel             TUI::Dialogs::Label          [x]

Lists and History

 Class              Perl Module                           Status
 ------------------ ------------------------------------- ------
 TListBox           TUI::Dialogs::ListBox                 [x]
 TListBoxRec        TUI::Dialogs::ListBox                 [x]
 TSortedListBox     TUI::StdDlg::SortedListBox            [x]
 HistRec            TUI::Dialogs::HistoryViewer::HistList [x]
 THistoryViewer     TUI::Dialogs::HistoryViewer           [x]
 THistInit          TUI::Dialogs::HistInit                [x]
 THistoryWindow     TUI::Dialogs::HistoryWindow           [x]
 THistory           TUI::Dialogs::History                 [x]

=head3 Standard Dialogs

 Class              Perl Module                  Status
 ------------------ ---------------------------- ------
 ffblk/find_t       TUI::StdDlg::Dos             [x]
 FindFirstRec       TUI::StdDlg::FindFirstRec    [o]
 TSearchRec         TUI::StdDlg::FileCollection  [x]
 TFileCollection    TUI::StdDlg::FileCollection  [x]
 TFileInputLine     TUI::StdDlg::FileInputLine   [x]
 TFileList          TUI::StdDlg::FileList        [x]
 TFileInfoPane      TUI::StdDlg::FileInfoPane    [x]
 TFileDialog        TUI::StdDlg::FileDialog      [x]
 TDirEntry          TUI::StdDlg::DirEntry        [x]
 TDirCollection     TUI::StdDlg::DirCollection   [x]
 TDirListBox        TUI::StdDlg::DirListBox      [x]
 TChDirDialog       TUI::StdDlg::ChDirDialog     [x]

Win32 FindFirstRec class, implemented in C<TUI::Drivers::FindFirstRec::Win32>.

=head3 Menu System

 Class              Perl Module                  Status
 ------------------ ---------------------------- ------
 TMenuItem          TUI::Menus::MenuItem         [x]
 TMenu              TUI::Menus::Menu             [x]
 TMenuView          TUI::Menus::MenuView         [x]
 TMenuBar           TUI::Menus::MenuBar          [x]
 TMenuBox           TUI::Menus::MenuBox          [x]
 TMenuPopup         (missing)                    [ ]
 TSubMenu           TUI::Menus::SubMenu          [x]
 TStatusLine        TUI::Menus::StatusLine       [x]
 TStatusItem        TUI::Menus::StatusItem       [x]
 TStatusDef         TUI::Menus::StatusDef        [x]

=head3 Message Box System

 Class              Perl Module                  Status
 ------------------ ---------------------------- ------
 messageBox()       TUI::MsgBox::MsgBoxText      [x]
 messageBoxRect()   TUI::MsgBox::MsgBoxText      [x]
 inputBox()         TUI::MsgBox::MsgBoxText      [x]
 inputBoxRect()     TUI::MsgBox::MsgBoxText      [x]

=head3 Validator System

 Class                   Perl Module                  Status
 ----------------------- ---------------------------- ------
 TValidator              (missing)                    [ ]
 TFilterValidator        (missing)                    [ ]
 TRangeValidator         (missing)                    [ ]
 TLookupValidator        (missing)                    [ ]
 TStringLookupValidator  (missing)                    [ ]
 TPXPictureValidator     (missing)                    [ ]

=head3 Collections Framework

 Class                Perl Module                       Status
 -------------------- --------------------------------- ------
 TNSCollection        TUI::Objects::NSCollection        [x]
 TNSSortedCollection  TUI::Objects::NSSortedCollection  [x]
 TCollection          TUI::Objects::Collection          [x]
 TSortedCollection    TUI::Objects::SortedCollection    [x]
 TStringCollection    TUI::Objects::StringCollection    [x]
 TStringList          (missing)                         [ ]
 TStrListMaker        (missing)                         [ ]
 TResourceCollection  (missing)                         [ ]
 TResourceFile        (missing)                         [ ]

=head3 Editors and Text Devices

 Class              Perl Module                  Status
 ------------------ ---------------------------- ------
 TEditor            (missing)                    [ ]
 TMemo              (missing)                    [ ]
 TFileEditor        (missing)                    [ ]
 TEditWindow        (missing)                    [ ]
 TIndicator         (missing)                    [ ]
 TTextDevice        TUI::TextView::TextDevice    [x]
 TTerminal          TUI::TextView::Terminal      [x]

=head3 Gadgets

 Class              Perl Module                  Status
 ------------------ ---------------------------- ------
 TCalcDisplay       (missing)                    [ ]
 TCalendarView      (missing)                    [ ]
 TClickTester       (missing)                    [ ]
 TClockView         TUI::Gadgets::ClockView      [x]
 TEventViewer       TUI::Gadgets::EventViewer    [x]
 THeapView          TUI::Gadgets::HeapView       [o]
 TLineCollection    (missing)                    [ ]
 TPuzzleView        (missing)                    [ ]

Win32 THeapView, implemented in C<TUI::Gadgets::HeapView::Win32>.

=head2 Memory Management and Resource Handling

Languages with automatic garbage collection (like Perl) have complementary 
problems compared to languages without garbage collection (like C/C++). For 
every issue, there is a bug characteristic of non-GC languages and a bug 
characteristic of GC languages, along with programmer responsibilities in both 
types.

Perl programmers might think they are relieved from freeing objects, but objects
hold other resources besides memory that often need to be released 
appropriately. Where a C++ programmer might have a dangling reference (often 
not a bug due to some flag or state marking it as not to be used), a Perl 
programmer has a memory leak. Thus, the C++ programmer is responsible for 
ensuring C<free/delete> is called appropriately, while the Perl programmer must 
ensure unwanted references are nulled or otherwise disposed of properly.

Perl 5 supports weak references so that programmers can deliberately avoid 
creating reference cycles. If data structures contain reference cycles, these 
are only reclaimed by the Perl runtime when the parent thread is switched off. 
This is seen as a welcome compromise, as opposed to implementing overhead cycle 
detection, which would slow down execution time.

It is claimed that a few calls to C<weaken> or using 
L<Proxy Objects|https://www.perl.com/pub/2002/08/07/proxyobject.html/> can 
handle this. This might be true, but Turbo Vision sources use many dangling 
references in various tree structures or collections. To break all these cycles 
and ensure timely disposal of garbage memory, the Perl implementation must have 
an intelligent scheme.

Turbo Vision C++ code relies heavily on the convention of resource allocation 
and ensures reliable and timely destructor calls. This is not possible in Perl, 
which works with cycles. This poses some challenges during implementation. If 
you interrupt a garbage cycle, you can't know which destructor to call first 
without causing dependency problems - it might even be impossible, since there 
are more cyclic dependencies than just memory references. All other resources 
have to be cleaned up manually, like in Pascal or C++, without the advantages 
of Perl.

When porting C++ code to Perl, one common pitfall is accidentally replacing an 
object reference instead of copying data into the existing object. In C++, 
passing by reference ensures that assignments modify the caller's object, while 
in Perl the same assignment simply rebinds a local scalar and discards the 
caller's reference. This difference can silently break control flow, especially 
in event-driven systems where modified objects must propagate back to the 
caller.

=head2 Debug Helpers

C<NoteSV> and C<CheckSV> are two functions from the L<Devel::Leak> module that 
can be used to track memory leaks in Perl applications. They work together to 
identify and report on memory that has been allocated but not properly released.

    my $count = Devel::Leak::NoteSV($handle);
    my $count = Devel::Leak::CheckSV($handle);

C<NoteSV> searches the Perl-internal table of assigned scalar values (which 
also contains arrays and hashes), and records their addresses in a table. It 
returns a count of these I<things> and stores a reference to the table in its 
argument.

C<CheckSV> is passed an argument containing a reference to a table created by 
C<NoteSV>. It runs through the Perl internals again and calls C<sv_dump()> for 
all I<things> that were not yet present when C<NoteSV> was called. It returns 
the  number of I<things> now assigned. 

This is particularly useful if you want to check your application for memory 
leaks, as shown in this example code from L<Devel::Leak>:

  use Devel::Leak;
  ... setup code
  my $count = Devel::Leak::NoteSV($handle);
  ... code that may leak
  Devel::Leak::CheckSV($handle);

B<Note>: This small Perl utility module is to be used as a replacement for the 
Turbo Vision Pascal implementation of I<SetMemTop>.

=cut
