=head1 NAME

Net::Respite::Server - generic Respite based Respite server

$Id: Server.pod,v 1.5 2013/09/17 17:51:34 paul Exp $

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    # Net::Server::HTTP based PreFork server

    # in bin/foo_server
    # --------------------

    #!/usr/bin/perl
    use lib qw(../lib);
    use Net::Respite::Server;
    Net::Respite::Server->run_commandline(
        # server_name  => "foo_server", # not needed if file name is correct
        revision       => 1.1,
        dispatch_class => 'Foo',
        user           => 'paul',
        group          => 'paul',
        content_type   => 'text/plain',
    );


    package FooServer;
    use base qw(Net::Respite::Server);
    sub server_name { 'foo_server' }
    sub revision { 1.1 }
    sub dispatch_class { 'Foo' }
    sub handler { __PACKAGE__->modperlhandler(@_) } # for mod_perl only

    use FooServer;
    # FooServer->run; # do your own daemonization
    FooServer->run_commandline; # full service daemon

    # OR

    use Net::Respite::Server;
    Net::Respite::Server->run_commandline(
        server_name => 'foo_server',
        revision    => 1.1,
        dispatch_class => 'Foo',
    );


    # CGI based script (mod_perl or not)

    use FooServer;
    FooServer->cgihandler();
      # in apache conf
      #       ScriptAlias /foo/ /var/www/cgi-bin/foo/


    # mod_perl handler (apache conf)

    # <Location /foo/>
    #   SetHandler modperl
    #   PerlResponseHandler FooServer
    # </Location>

=head1 CONFIGURATION

Many options may be passed directly to new or to run_server.  However
you can also set options via new_args (options used during new) and to
server_args (options used when running under Net::Server::HTTP).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item access_log_file => $access_file,

Defaults to /var/log/$server_name/$server_name.access_log

=item api_meta

Name of the class, or hashref describing the dispatch services.  See L<Net::Respite::Base> for more
information.

=item group

Defaults to cvs

=item host

Defaults to *

=item log_file

Defaults to /var/log/$server_name/$server_name.error_log

=item no_ssl

Defaults to false

=item no_brand

Defaults to undef.  If true, then a brand won't be looked for.  If the value is true but
less than 0 (such as -1), then the brand will optionally be parsed (useful for systems
optionally passing a brand).

=item pass

Password to use for signing

Default nothing.  If not set, no signing is required.  If set, will be used as the default
password in get_api_pass.  Additionally the password can be a hashref
of values.

     pass => '123qwe',
     pass => {'127.0.0.1' => '123qwe', mybrand => '123qwe'},
     pass => {'127.0.0.1' => {mybrand => '123qwe'}},

=item pid_file

Defaults to /var/run/$server_name/$server_name.pid

=item port

Defaults to 443 (80 if no_ssl is set)

=item rootdir_server

Defaults to $FindBin::RealBin

=item server_name

Must be set.  This name will be used to set the name of server path and various other pieces.

=item server_type

Defaults to PreFork.  Can be any Net::Server type.

=item ssl_cert

Defaults to $rootdir_server/conf/STAR.bluehost.com.crt

=item ssl_key

Defaults to $rootdir_server/conf/STAR.bluehost.com.key

=item user

Defaults to readonly

=item warn_on_stdout

Default false.  If true, inadvertent print to STDOUT will end up in the error log rather
than breaking the client.

=back

=cut
