=pod

=for vim
   vim: tw=72 ts=3 sts=3 sw=3 et ai :

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

PDF::Collage::Template - A single template for PDF::Collage


=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use PDF::Collage::Template;
   my $pc = PDF::Collage::Template->new(%args);
   my $pdf = $pc->render(\%data);
   $pdf->saveas('/path/to/file.pdf');


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module implements a class that allows loading a I<template> (as a
sequence of commands for basic PDF manipulation) and then L</render>
this template over and over, based on different data for filling in the
form.

The input format requires the presence of key C<commands>, associated to
an array reference of L</commands>.

Each such command is a hash reference, containing I<at least> a key
C<op> which tells which kind of command should be executed. The command
kinds are described in the following sub-sections.

All commands are applied in sequence during a call to L</render>.

=head2 B<< add-image >>

   {
      op => 'add-image',
      page => 1,
      path => '/path/to/image.png',
      x => 10,
      y => 30,
      width => 10,
      height => 10,
   }

Add an image. See L<PDF::Build> for the supported formats.

=head2 B<< add-page >>

   { op => 'add-page' }

Add an empty page at the end.

   { op => 'add-page', page => 1 }

Add an empty page as page number 1.

   {
      op => 'add-page',
      page => 2,
      'from-path' => '/some/file.pdf',
      'from-page' => 3
   }

Get page 3 from file C</some/file.pdf> and add it as page 2 in the PDF
that is built.

   {
      ope => 'add-page',
      'from-path' => '/some/file.pdf',
      'from-page' => '2-10 13 17 19-25',
   }


(Since 0.003) Get multiple pages from file C</some/file.pdf> and add all
of them at the end of the PDF that is built, in the same order as they
are specified in C<from-page>.

Key C<from-path> can also be abbreviated as C<from>.

As of version 0.003, input PDFs are opened only once and the associated
object is cached for later reuse, giving a performance boost on big
files.

=head2 B<< add-text >>

   {
      op => 'add-text',
      page => 1,
      font => 'DejaVuSans.ttf',
      'font-size' => 12,
      text => 'whatever',
      align => 'start', # also 'middle' or 'end'
      x => 10,
      y => 20,
   }

Place a text label on the PDF.

The C<font> key can be replaced with C<font-family>.

There are three ways of defining the text:

=over

=item C<text>

This text is taken verbatim and has precedence over other alternatives;

=item C<text-template>

This text is expanded using L<Template::Perlish> with the data passed to
L</render>. It takes precedence over L</text-variable>.

=item C<text-variable>

This is meant to be a variable that is expanded using
L<Template::Perlish> on the data provided.

=back

The C<align> is optional and defaults to C<start>, which for western
fonts means that the X coordinate marks the starting position of the
first character of the string, which is then rendered to the right of
that coordinate. Alternative values are C<middle> and C<end>, which do
what they imply regarding horizontal alighment of the rendered string.

=head2 B<< log >>

   {
      op => 'log',
      level => 'info',
      message => 'whatever!',
   }

Print a log message. If L<Log::Any> is available, it will use it;
otherwise, C<warn> is used.

=head2 B<< set-defaults >>

   {
      op => 'set-default',
      font => 'DejaVuSans.ttf',
      'font-size' => 12,
   }

Set some defaults that will be used in following commands. This allows
e.g. to set the same font once and for all for all L</add-text>
commands, or the font size.

=head1 INTERFACE

This module has an I<object-oriented> interface.

=head2 Constructor

=head3 B<< new >>

   my $pct = PDF::Collage::Template->new(%args);
   my $pct = PDF::Collage::Template->new(\%args);

Build a new object. The input arguments can be key-value pairs or a has
reference, supporting the same keys as the accessors L</commands>,
L</functions>, and L</metadata>.

Returns a C<PDF::Collage::Template> object.

=head2 Accesssors

=head3 B<< commands >>

   my $array_ref = $obj->commands;

An array reference containing the list of commands to apply for
generating a new PDF during L</render>.

=head3 B<< functions >>

   my $hash_ref = $obj->functions;

A hash reference with I<functions> that will be injected into the
L<Template::Perlish> namespace when expanding all templates during the
call to L</render>.

=head3 B<< metadata >>

   my $hash_ref = $obj->metadata;

Additional metadata, represented by a hash reference. Not used by the
module, but kept for ease of manipulation.

=head2 Methods

=head2 B<< render >>

   my $pdf = $obj->render(\%data);

Use the provided hash reference to expand all applicable
L<Template::Perlish> templates and then use them while applying
L</commands> to generate the PDF.

Returns a L<PDF::Builder> object.

=head1 AUTHOR

Flavio Poletti <flavio@polettix.it>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2023 by Flavio Poletti <flavio@polettix.it>

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

=cut
