=pod

=head1 NAME

Version::Semantic - Immutable SemVer scheme based version class

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Version::Semantic ();

  my $v_unstable = Version::Semantic->parse( '1.0.1-alpha' );
  my $v_testing  = Version::Semantic->parse( '1.0.1-beta' );
  my $v_stable   = Version::Semantic->parse( 'v1.0.1' );

  if ( $v_unstable < $v_testing and $v_testing < $v_stable ) {
    ...
  }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class defines immutable version objects that support the L<Semantic
Versioning (SemVer) Scheme|https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html>.

The class has a C<parse( $version )> factory method (a class method)
to create objects from their semantic version strings. The method accepts
semantic version strings that have a C<v> prefix (L<Is "v1.2.3" a semantic
version?|https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html#is-v123-a-semantic-version>).

Each object has the mandatory attributes C<major>, C<minor>,
and C<patch>.  Optional object attributes are C<pre_release> and
C<build>. C<has_pre_release()> and C<has_build_()> predicate methods exist too.

The C<version_core()> object method returns the semantic version string of an
object with the C<v> prefix (if originally set) but without the pre-release
and the build extensions.

The C<to_string()> object method returns the semantic version string of an
object including the C<v> prefix (if originally set). The method is used to
overload the stringification C<""> operator.

The C<compare_to()> object method implements the L<SemVer precedence
rules|https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html#spec-item-11>. This method is used
to overload the numeric comparison C<E<lt>=E<gt>> operator. This allows you
to compare version objects.

=head1 ABOUT PRE-RELEASES

Perl recognizes two version styles: decimal versions and dotted decimal
versions. The dotted decimal version style is the newer one. It matches the
SemVer scheme but doesn't allow pre-release and build extensions.

If the archive file of a Perl distribution has a name ending in C<TRIAL\d*>
(before the file extension), indicates that the distribution is a
pre-release. C<TRIAL\d*> is a valid SemVer pre-release extension. For
obvious reasons such kind of pre-releases are also named "trial releases".
If L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker> (EUMM) is your installer, the DISTVNAME EUMM
attribute can be used to mark a distribution as a trial release (example value
"Foo-Bar-v1.0.1-TRIAL5").

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 2

=item *

L<SemVer::V2::Strict>

=item *

L<SemVer>

=item *

L<Version::Dotted::Semantic>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Sven Willenbuecher <sven.willenbuecher@gmx.de>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2026 by Sven Willenbuecher.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
