=head1 NAME

README - Perl Core Test Smoke Suite

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Make sure you are in the directory where you installed the software!

  $ perl tsconfigsmoke.pl      # will generate smokecurrent.sh
  $ sh smokecurrent.sh

or on windows:

    C:>tsconfigsmoke           # will generate smokecurrent.bat
    C:>smokecurrent

For the impatient: see the section L</"GETTING STARTED">

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The perl core test smoke suite is a set of scripts and modules that try to
run the perl core tests on as many configurations as possible and combine
the results into an easy to read report.

The basic cycle looks like:

    fetch_sourcetree
    foreach $config ( @configurations ) {
        make distclean
        ./Configure $config
        make
        make test (and log failures)
    }
    create_report()
    mail_report()

Before you start "smoking" we expect you have tried to build some of
the configurations "by hand" to check if your environment is okay.

=head1 INSTALLATION

The Test::Smoke suite has been designed to be installed outside of the
normal Perl library-tree. It will also run from the directory in which
it was un-tar-gzipped, but if you like to keep up to date with
Test::Smoke releases, it might be useful to use the standard
perl-module installation commands:

    $ perl Makefile.PL
    $ make test
    $ make install

The F<Makefile.PL> program will ask for a directory in which
Test::Smoke should be installed (this will set I<PREFIX>,
I<INSTALLSCRIPT> and I<LIB> all to that directory).

I<If you want to automate the Makefile.PL step you need to set two
environment variables: $ENV{SMOKE_INSTDIR}='../p5smoke' and
$ENV{AUTOMATED_TESTING}=1>

=head1 GETTING STARTED

You are now ready to run the F<tsconfigsmoke.pl> configuration program:

    $ perl tsconfigsmoke.pl

You will have to answer some questions that help create a
configuration file for the Test::Smoke suite.

You should check the F<perlcurrent.cfg> (or F<w32current.cfg> on MSWin32)
build-configurations file and remove options that are not supported for your
platform.

Now you are set to go:

    $ sh smokecurrent.sh

If something useful happens, do it every night using a scheduler.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

Please also read F<HOWTO.md> for instructions.

=over 4

=item Test::Smoke configuration

You can create configurations by running the F<tsconfigsmoke.pl>
program. Please see its L<documentation|tsconfigsmoke.pl>.

=item Build configurations

At the moment there are no guidelines of how to change the
build-configuration best to fit the needs of perl5-porters while still
getting as much smoke out of the test as possible, simply because the
needs of perl5-porters change over time:).

This also makes Test::Smoke somewhat volatile, as we aim to please the
perl5-porters as much as possible, to help make perl even better, more
stable and as thoroughly tested as possible.

=back

=head1 NOTES TO MSWIN32 USERS

To make it clear, the perl core test smoke suite treats B<cygwin> and
B<DJGPP> as unixy platforms and not as true MSWin32.

To keep in sync with the source-tree, it is recommended you use L<git>. As long
as you use a version that also comes with a command-line tool.

Some problems have been reported with older versions of cygwin and the
patch program during the C<< S<[nd]make test> >> stage of
Test::Smoke. Don't worry about it if you do not intend to use patch.

During smoke testing stuff might crash and give a popup. You'll want to disable Windows error reporting:

    Action Center (from Control Panel)
      -> Maintenance
          -> Settings
              -> Never check for solutions

For more information see:
    http://serverfault.com/questions/29678/disabling-myapp-has-stopped-working-dialog

In "older" Windows versions (before 7) we have found some problems with the default
windows debugger B<Dr.Watson>. By default Dr.Watson will pop-up when the moral
equivalent of a segmentation fault happens, this will make the smoke wait for
user input. You can disable this by starting F<drwtsn32.exe> and un-check the
B<Visual Notification> and B<Sound Notification> check-boxes and press B<OK>.


=head1 SLOW SYSTEMS

It can happen that your system is not able to pursue all the tests, either
because it is too slow or because some of the configurations are not
supported by the system. At first, don't worry, they are detected by the
report creation script and shown as such.

After the first run gave you some idea of how long the smoke will run on
your system,  you can create your own copy of smoke.cfg where you either
add new combinations and/or test levels, or delete lines to speed up the
run time of Test::Smoke.

=head1 AVAILABILITY AND REFERENCES

=over 4

=item B<Distribution>

    http://metacpan.org/pod/Test::Smoke/

    https://github.com/Perl-Toolchain-Gang/Test-Smoke

=item B<Archives>

=over 4

=item B<Reports>

    <daily-build-reports@perl.org>
        [subscribe: <daily-build-reports-subscribe@perl.org>]
    http://www.nntp.perl.org/group/perl.daily-build.reports
    news:nntp.perl.org/perl.daily-build.reports

=item B<Others>

  Perl general QA: perl-qa@perl.org
  Development:     perl5-porters@perl.org

=item B<CoreSmokeDB>

We also keep a database of smokereports that are created by Test::Smoke
1.58 or higher.

    https://perl5.test-smoke.org/

=back

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2001-2023

  * H.Merijn Brand
  * Abe Timmerman

This suite is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself, without consulting the author.

(Future) Co-Authors and or contributors should agree to this before
submitting patches.

See:

=over 4

=item * http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html

=item * http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html

=back

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


=head1 AUTHOR

The perl core test smoke suite is maintained by Abe Timmerman
<abeltje@cpan.org>.

H.Merijn Brand <h.m.brand@hccnet.nl> in dialogue and consultation with
Michael Schwern <schwern@pobox.com>, the Perl QA pumpkin.

Contributors and/or co-authors:

    Configurations and
      nuts and bolts    Nicholas Clark <nick@plum.flirble.org>
    smoke.sh            Jarkko Hietaniemi
    Portability issues  Will Coleda - IMG <wjc@infomg.com>
    Safety              Richard Soderberg
    Win32/MSC5/dmake    Mattia Barbon
                        Abe Timmerman <abeltje@cpan.org>
                        Christian Walde <mithaldu@cpan.org> *
    Cygwin              John Peacock <jpeacock@rowman.com>
    Sharing issues      Blair Zajac
    Good ideas          Jos Boumans <kane@dwim.org>
    VMS                 Craig Berry *
    SysInfo             Alain Barbet
                        Merijn Brand *
                        Alan Burlison
                        Allen Smith
                        David Woolger
                        Campo Wijerman
    Other               James E Keenan
                        Andrew Hewus Fresh

and all the people having useful suggestions and nits, starting at
YAPC::Europe-2.0.01, where Michael talked Merijn into simplifying his own
test-suite and sharing it with the community.

The Test::Smoke team.

=head1 MISC

As always, have the appropriate amount of fun!

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<FAQ>

=cut
