=head1 NAME

Nginx::FastCGI::Cache - Conveniently manage the nginx fastcgi cache

=head1 VERSION

version 0.010

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Nginx::FastCGI::Cache;

    # location is mandatory, rest are optional, these are the default values
    my $nginx_cache
        = Nginx::FastCGI::Cache->new({
            fastcgi_cache_key => [qw/scheme request_method host request_uri/],
            location          => '/var/nginx/cache',
            levels            => [ 1, 2 ],
    });

    # delete all cached files
    $nginx->purge_cache;

    # delete the cached file for this url only
    $nginx->purge_file('http://perltricks.com/');

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

Returns a new Nginx::FastCGI::Cache object. Location is the only mandatory
argument, and the directory must exist and be executable (aka readable) by the
Perl process in order to be valid. The other two arguments accepted are levels
and fastcgi_cache_key. These default to the standard nginx settings (see the
L<nginx fastcgi
documentation|http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_fastcgi_module.html>).

=head2 purge_file

Deletes the nginx cached file for a particular URL - requires a URL as an
argument, and optionally, the HTTP request method:

    $nginx_cache->purge_file('http://perltricks.com/'); #assumes GET
    $nginx_cache->purge_file('http://perltricks.com/', 'POST');
    $nginx_cache->purge_file('http://perltricks.com/', 'HEAD');

=head2 purge_cache

Deletes all nginx cached files in the nginx cache directory.

=head1 BUGS / LIMITATIONS

=over 4

=item *

The fastcgi_cache_key only acccepts: scheme, request_method, host, and
request_uri as keys. This shouldn't be an issue as it's the recommended
convention, but let me know if further variables would be useful.

=back

=head1 REPOSITORY

L<https://github.com/sillymoose/nginx-fast-cgi>

=head1 AUTHOR

David Farrell <sillymoos@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2014 by David Farrell.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same
terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

