package Perinci::Manual::Reference::FunctionMetadata::Examples::PropertyAttributeIndex; # just to make podweaver happy

# AUTHORITY
# DATE
our $DIST = 'Perinci-Manual'; # DIST
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Alphabetical list of properties/attributes used in example specification in Rinci function metadata

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Perinci::Manual::Reference::FunctionMetadata::Examples::PropertyAttributeIndex - Alphabetical list of properties/attributes used in example specification in Rinci function metadata

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.009 of Perinci::Manual::Reference::FunctionMetadata::Examples::PropertyAttributeIndex (from Perl distribution Perinci-Manual), released on 2022-07-01.

=head1 INDEX

=head2 x.doc.show_result

2015-09-25.

Bool, default true.

Observed by L<Perinci::To::Doc>, L<Pod::Weaver::Plugin:Rinci>.

=head2 x.doc.max_result_lines

2016-09-28.

Observed by L<Pod::Weaver::Plugin:Rinci>.

If this attribute is set and output is more than the value set in this
attribute, then ellipsis will be used to clip the middle of the output.

Example usage: L<App::dateseq>.

=head1 INDEX (DEPRECATED)

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Perinci-Manual>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Perinci-Manual>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Other C<Perinci::Manual::Reference::**::PropertyAttributeIndex> pages.

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTING


To contribute, you can send patches by email/via RT, or send pull requests on
GitHub.

Most of the time, you don't need to build the distribution yourself. You can
simply modify the code, then test via:

 % prove -l

If you want to build the distribution (e.g. to try to install it locally on your
system), you can install L<Dist::Zilla>,
L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>, and sometimes one or two other
Dist::Zilla plugin and/or Pod::Weaver::Plugin. Any additional steps required
beyond that are considered a bug and can be reported to me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2022, 2021 by perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Perinci-Manual>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
