=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

PDK::Device::Cisco - Interacts with Cisco devices, managing connections, commands, and configuration backups.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use PDK::Device::Cisco;

  my $device = PDK::Device::Cisco->new(
    host     => '192.168.1.1',
    username => 'admin',
    password => 'password'
  );

  $device->login();
  $device->send('show running-config');
  $device->getConfig();
  $device->ftpConfig();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides methods to interact with Cisco devices, including login, command execution, and configuration backups over FTP.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=over 4

=item prompt

Regex for the normal mode prompt (default: '\S+[#>]\s*\z').

=item enPrompt

Regex for non-privileged mode prompt (default: '\S+[>]\s*\z').

=item enCommand

Command to switch to enable mode (default: 'enable').

=back

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item errCodes

Returns an array of regexes for common error patterns (e.g., "Permission denied", "Invalid command").

=item waitfor($prompt, $params)

Waits for the specified prompt and handles device responses interactively.

Parameters:
  $prompt - The prompt to match (optional)
  $params - A hash reference containing send command and other options (optional)
    send     - The command to send
    continue - Whether to continue execution (default: false)
    cache    - Whether to cache the output (default: true)

Returns: The output of the command execution

=item runCommands($commands)

Executes a list of commands in configuration mode, automatically adding commands like "configure terminal" and "copy running-config startup-config" if needed.

Parameters:
  $commands - An array reference containing the list of commands

Returns: None

=item getConfig

Retrieves the device's running configuration, excluding specific lines (e.g., "ntp clock-period").

Returns: A hash reference containing a success flag and the configuration content

=item ftpConfig($hostname, $server)

Backs up the running configuration to an FTP server.

Parameters:
  $hostname - Optional hostname
  $server   - FTP server address (if not provided, uses the PDK_FTP_SERVER environment variable)

Returns: The result of the command execution

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

WENWU YAN <968828@gmail.com>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2024 WENWU YAN

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

=cut