=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

PDK::Device::H3C - A module for interacting with H3C devices

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use PDK::Device::H3C;

  my $device = PDK::Device::H3C->new(
    host     => '192.168.1.1',
    username => 'admin',
    password => 'H3Cpassword'
  );

  # Log in to the device
  $device->login();

  # Execute commands in normal mode
  $device->execCommands(['display version', 'display arp']);

  # Execute commands in configuration mode, automatically adding [system-view, save]
  $device->runCommands(['display version']);

  # Retrieve running configuration
  my $config = $device->getConfig();

  # FTP configuration backup
  my $backup = $device->ftpConfig('hostname', 'ftp_server', 'ftp_username', 'ftp_password');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides functionality to interact with H3C devices, including executing commands, retrieving configurations, and backing up configurations via FTP. It extends the PDK::Device::Base role and is tailored for H3C-specific operations.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=over 4

=item B<prompt>

The device's default prompt, defaults to '^\s*(\x00)?[<\[].*?[>\]]\s*$'. This pattern is designed to handle older H3C devices that may have '^@' in their prompts.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<errCodes>

Returns a list of possible error patterns for checking errors during command execution. These include patterns for ambiguous commands, incomplete commands, unrecognized commands, and other common errors.

=item B<waitfor($prompt, $params)>

Waits for a specific prompt match and handles device responses interactively.

Parameters:
  - $prompt: The prompt to match (optional)
  - $params: A hash reference containing send command and other options (optional)
    - send: The command to send
    - continue: Whether to continue execution (default: false)
    - cache: Whether to cache the output (default: true)

Returns: The output of the command execution

=item B<runCommands($commands)>

Executes a series of commands in configuration mode. It automatically adds 'system-view' at the beginning if not present, and 'save force' at the end if not already included.

Parameters:
  - $commands: An array reference containing the list of commands

=item B<getConfig>

Retrieves the running configuration of the device. It executes commands to disable screen length limitations, display the current configuration, and force a configuration save.

Returns: A hash reference containing a success flag and configuration content.

=item B<ftpConfig($hostname, $server, $username, $password)>

Backs up the running configuration to an FTP server.

Parameters:
  - $hostname: Optional hostname
  - $server: FTP server address (if not provided, uses the PDK_FTP_SERVER environment variable)
  - $username: FTP username (if not provided, uses the PDK_FTP_USERNAME environment variable)
  - $password: FTP password (if not provided, uses the PDK_FTP_PASSWORD environment variable)

Returns: A hash reference containing a success flag and the FTP operation result.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

WENWU YAN <968828@gmail.com>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2024 WENWU YAN

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<PDK::Device::Base>, L<Moose>, L<Expect>

=cut