pod

=head1 NAME

PDK::Device::Huawei - Module for managing Huawei devices and backing up configurations via FTP

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use PDK::Device::Huawei;

  my $device = PDK::Device::Huawei->new( host => 'device_ip' );
  my $config = $device->getConfig();
  $device->ftpConfig( $hostname, $server, $username, $password );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The PDK::Device::Huawei module provides functionality for interacting with Huawei devices. It includes methods for fetching configurations, running commands, and backing up the device configuration via FTP. The module extends L<PDK::Device::Base> and uses the C<Expect> module for interacting with the device.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 prompt

  is       => 'ro',
  required => 1,
  default  => '^\s*[<\[].*?[>\]]\s*$',

This attribute defines the regular expression used to match the device's command prompt. It defaults to the common Huawei CLI prompt format.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 errCodes

  $device->errCodes();

Returns an array reference of regular expressions representing possible error patterns that may occur during command execution.

=head2 waitfor

  $device->waitfor( $prompt );

Waits for a specific prompt (or uses the default prompt) and captures the output from the device. This method handles pagination (C<--More-->) and confirmation prompts (e.g., "Are you sure to continue") and returns the captured output.

=over 4

=item *

C<$prompt> - Optional, specifies the prompt to wait for. If not provided, the default device prompt is used.

=back

=head2 runCommands

  $device->runCommands( \@commands );

Executes a series of commands on the device. This method automatically ensures that configuration mode is entered, and the configuration is saved after the commands are executed.

=over 4

=item *

C<\@commands> - An array reference containing the list of commands to execute.

=back

=head2 getConfig

  $device->getConfig();

Fetches the current configuration of the device. This method runs commands to display the current configuration and returns the output. The result is returned as a hash reference containing a success flag and the configuration content.

=head2 ftpConfig

  $device->ftpConfig( $hostname, $server, $username, $password );

Backs up the current device configuration to an FTP server. This method connects to the specified FTP server, uploads the device's configuration, and returns the result.

=over 4

=item *

C<$hostname> - Optional, specifies a custom hostname to use in the backup filename.

=item *

C<$server> - The FTP server address. If not provided, it is loaded from the environment variable C<PDK_FTP_SERVER>.

=item *

C<$username> - The FTP username. If not provided, it is loaded from the environment variable C<PDK_FTP_USERNAME>.

=item *

C<$password> - The FTP password. If not provided, it is loaded from the environment variable C<PDK_FTP_PASSWORD>.

=back

The method ensures that the FTP connection is established, uploads the configuration file, and verifies the successful completion of the transfer.

=head1 ERROR HANDLING

The module uses C<croak> to throw exceptions when errors occur, including:

=over 4

=item *

Connection timeouts to the device or FTP server.

=item *

Failed logins or incorrect credentials.

=item *

Unexpected disconnections during command execution.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

Methods typically return a hash reference with the following keys:

=over 4

=item *

C<success> - A boolean indicating whether the method completed successfully.

=item *

C<config> - A string containing the captured output or configuration.

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

This module depends on the following Perl modules:

=over 4

=item *

C<Moose> - For object-oriented programming.

=item *

C<Expect> - For interacting with devices through terminal sessions.

=item *

C<Carp> - For error handling with C<croak>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

WENWU YAN <968828@gmail.com>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2024 WENWU YAN

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

=cut
