=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

PDK::Device::Concern::Netdisco - A module for parallel network topology discovery and interface description correction

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use PDK::Device::Concern::Netdisco;

  my $netdisco = PDK::Device::Concern::Netdisco->new();

  my $devices = [
    { name => 'switch1', ip => '192.168.1.1', os => 'H3C' },
    { name => 'router1', ip => '192.168.1.2', os => 'Cisco' },
  ];

  $netdisco->exploreTopologyJob($devices);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

PDK::Device::Concern::Netdisco is a Moose-based module that provides functionality for parallel network topology discovery and interface description correction. It supports multiple devices and can handle different device types such as H3C and Cisco.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=over 4

=item queue

Number of concurrent tasks. Defaults to 10 or the value of PDK_DEVICE_NETDISCO_QUEUE environment variable.

=item workdir

Working directory for logs and output files. Defaults to PDK_DEVICE_NETDISCO_HOME environment variable or user's home directory.

=item debug

Debug level. Defaults to 0 or the value of PDK_DEVICE_NETDISCO_DEBUG environment variable.

=item result

Stores the results of operations, including success and failure records.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item exploreTopologyJob($devices)

Executes topology discovery tasks for multiple devices in parallel.

=item startExploreTopology($device)

Performs topology discovery for a single device and records the result.

=item exploreTopology($param)

Executes the topology discovery operation for a single device.

=item explore_h3c($device)

Explores topology for H3C devices.

=item explore_cisco($device)

Explores topology for Cisco devices.

=item dump($msg)

Outputs debug information based on the current debug level.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

=over 4

=item PDK_DEVICE_NETDISCO_QUEUE

Sets the number of concurrent tasks.

=item PDK_DEVICE_NETDISCO_HOME

Sets the working directory for logs and output files.

=item PDK_DEVICE_NETDISCO_DEBUG

Sets the debug level.

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

This module requires the following Perl modules:

=over 4

=item Moose

=item Carp

=item File::Path

=item Parallel::ForkManager

=item Thread::Queue

=item namespace::autoclean

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

WENWU YAN <968828@gmail.com>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2024 WENWU YAN

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

=cut