=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

PDK::Device::Paloalto - Module for managing Palo Alto Networks devices

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use PDK::Device::Paloalto;

  my $device = PDK::Device::Paloalto->new(
    host     => '192.168.1.1',
    username => 'admin',
    password => 'paloalto_password'
  );

  # Log in to the device
  $device->login();

  # Execute commands
  $device->execCommands(['show system info', 'show interface all']);

  # Retrieve running configuration
  my $config = $device->getConfig();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides functionality to interact with Palo Alto Networks devices, including executing commands and retrieving configurations. It extends the PDK::Device::Base role and is tailored for Palo Alto-specific operations.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=over 4

=item B<prompt>

The device's default prompt, defaults to '^.*?$$(?:active|passive|suspended)$$[>#]\s*$'. This pattern is designed to handle various Palo Alto device prompts, including active, passive, and suspended states.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 errCodes

  $device->errCodes();

Returns an array reference of regular expressions representing possible error patterns that may occur during command execution. These include patterns for unknown commands, invalid syntax, and other common errors.

=head2 waitfor($prompt, $params)

Waits for a specific prompt match and handles device responses interactively.

Parameters:
  - $prompt: The prompt to match (optional)
  - $params: A hash reference containing send command and other options (optional)
    - send: The command to send
    - continue: Whether to continue execution (default: false)
    - cache: Whether to cache the output (default: true)

Returns: The output of the command execution

This method handles pagination ("lines X-Y") and confirmation prompts ("are you sure?").

=head2 getConfig

  $device->getConfig();

Retrieves the running configuration of the device. It executes a series of commands to set the CLI pager off, set the config output format, enter configuration mode, show the configuration, and exit.

Returns: A hash reference containing a success flag and configuration content.

=head1 ERROR HANDLING

The module uses C<croak> to throw exceptions when errors occur, including:

=over 4

=item *

Connection timeouts to the device.

=item *

Unexpected disconnections during command execution.

=item *

Invalid syntax or unknown commands.

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

This module depends on the following Perl modules:

=over 4

=item *

C<Moose> - For object-oriented programming.

=item *

C<Expect> - For interacting with devices through terminal sessions.

=item *

C<Carp> - For error handling with C<croak>.

=item *

C<namespace::autoclean> - For keeping the namespace clean.

=back

=head1 INHERITANCE

This module inherits from C<PDK::Device::Base>.

=head1 AUTHOR

WENWU YAN <968828@gmail.com>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2024 WENWU YAN

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<PDK::Device::Base>, L<Moose>, L<Expect>

=cut