=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

PDK::Device::Huawei::Usg - A module for interacting with Huawei USG devices

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use PDK::Device::Huawei::Usg;

  my $device = PDK::Device::Huawei::Usg->new(
    host     => '192.168.1.1',
    username => 'admin',
    password => 'password'
  );

  $device->login();
  my $config = $device->getConfig();
  my $result = $device->ftpConfig('hostname', 'ftp.example.com', 'ftpuser', 'ftppass');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

PDK::Device::Huawei::Usg is a Moose-based module that extends PDK::Device::Huawei to provide specific functionality for Huawei USG (Unified Security Gateway) devices. It includes methods for retrieving device configurations and backing them up via FTP.

=head1 INHERITANCE

This module inherits from L<PDK::Device::Huawei>.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 getConfig()

Retrieves the current configuration from the Huawei USG device.

Returns: A hash reference with keys:
=over 4
=item * C<success> - Boolean indicating if the operation was successful
=item * C<config> - The current configuration of the device
=back

Example:
  my $config = $device->getConfig();
  if ($config->{success}) {
    print "Configuration: $config->{config}\n";
  }

=head2 ftpConfig($hostname, $server, $username, $password)

Backs up the device configuration via FTP.

Parameters:
=over 4
=item * C<$hostname> - Optional hostname for the backup file
=item * C<$server> - FTP server address
=item * C<$username> - FTP username
=item * C<$password> - FTP password
=back

Returns: A hash reference with keys:
=over 4
=item * C<success> - Boolean indicating if the operation was successful
=item * C<config> - The result of the FTP backup operation
=back

Example:
  my $result = $device->ftpConfig('usg1', 'ftp.example.com', 'ftpuser', 'ftppass');
  if ($result->{success}) {
    print "Backup successful: $result->{config}\n";
  }

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

This module uses the following environment variables if they are set:

=over 4

=item PDK_FTP_SERVER

The default FTP server to use for configuration backups.

=item PDK_FTP_USERNAME

The default username for FTP authentication.

=item PDK_FTP_PASSWORD

The default password for FTP authentication.

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

This module requires the following Perl modules:

=over 4

=item Moose

=item Expect

=item Carp

=item namespace::autoclean

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

WENWU YAN <968828@gmail.com>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2024 WENWU YAN

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

=cut