

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Lingua::KO::Munja - Korean letter conversion

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    
    use utf8;
    use Lingua::KO::Munja qw/roman2hangul hangul2roman/;
    my $roman = hangul2roman ('유사쿠');
    my $hangul = roman2hangul ('yusaku');
    print "$roman $hangul\n";


produces output

    yusaku 유사쿠


(This example is included as L<F<synopsis.pl>|https://api.metacpan.org/source/BKB/Lingua-KO-Munja-0.07/examples/synopsis.pl> in the distribution.)


=head1 VERSION

This documents Lingua::KO::Munja version 0.07
corresponding to git commit L<867075cabf61c54296f7dce2da81fab473c4d52b|https://github.com/benkasminbullock/Lingua-KO-Munja/commit/867075cabf61c54296f7dce2da81fab473c4d52b> released on Wed Mar 1 18:15:26 2017 +0900.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Inputs and outputs are in Perl's Unicode formulation.

This is a companion of L<Lingua::JA::Moji>.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 roman2hangul

    my $hangul = roman2hangul ('munja');

Convert romanized Korean to hangul.

=head2 hangul2roman

    my $roman = hangul2roman ('문자');

Convert hangul to romanized Korean.

=head1 EXTENDED EXAMPLES

    
    use Data::Kanji::Kanjidic ':all';
    use Lingua::KO::Munja ':all';
    my $k = parse_kanjidic ('/home/ben/data/edrdg/kanjidic');
    my @o = kanjidic_order ($k);
    my $max = 10;
    for my $kanji (@o[0..$max]) {
        my $entry = $k->{$kanji};
        my $korean = $entry->{W};
        if (! $korean) {
            next;
        }
        my @hangul = map {roman2hangul ($_)} @$korean;
        print "$kanji: @hangul\n";
    }


produces output

    亜: 아
    唖: 아
    娃: 왜 와
    阿: 아 옥
    哀: 애
    愛: 애
    挨: 애
    姶: 압
    逢: 봉
    葵: 규
    茜: 천


(This example is included as L<F<kanji2hanja.pl>|https://api.metacpan.org/source/BKB/Lingua-KO-Munja-0.07/examples/kanji2hanja.pl> in the distribution.)


=head1 SEE ALSO

=head2 Other CPAN modules

=over

=item L<Lingua::JA::Moji/kana2hangul>

This converts Japanese kana into hangul.

=item L<Lingua::KO::Romanize::Hangul>

This romanises Hangul.

=back

=head2 About Korean romanisation

=over

=item L<Revised Romanization of Korean|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Revised_Romanization_of_Korean>

Wikipedia article on the official form of Korean romanisation.

=back

=head1 EXPORTS

Nothing is exported by default. All the functions can be exported using the tag C<:all>.

    use Lingua::KO::Munja ':all';

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

=over

=item L<Convert::Moji>

Convert::Moji is used for making the conversions between alphabets.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Ben Bullock, <bkb@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Portions of this are taken from L<Lingua::KO::Romanize::Hangul>,
version 0.20, by Yusuke Kawasaki, Copyright (c) 1998-2008 Yusuke
Kawasaki.

The rest is by Ben Bullock.

This program may be copied, used, modified and redistributed under the
same terms as Perl itself.

