=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mail::Server::IMAP4 - IMAP4 server implementation (not completed)

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Server::IMAP4
   is a Mail::Server
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 !!!Partially implemented!!!!
 my $server = Mail::Server::IMAP4->new($msg);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is a place-holder, which can be used to grow code which
is needed to implement a full IMAP4 server.

Although the server is not implemented, parts of this server are
already available.

=over 4

=item * L<Mail::Server::IMAP4::Fetch|Mail::Server::IMAP4::Fetch>

used to capture "FETCH" related information from a message, and produce
server-side FETCH answers.

=item * L<Mail::Server::IMAP4::List|Mail::Server::IMAP4::List>

produce LIST reponses about existing folders.  This works
in combination with a L<Mail::Box::Manage::User|Mail::Box::Manage::User> object.

=item * L<Mail::Server::IMAP4::Search|Mail::Server::IMAP4::Search>

the SEARCH request.  Not implemented yet... looking for a volunteer.

=back

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in Mail::Server|Mail::Server/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in Mail::Server|Mail::Server/"METHODS">.
 
=head1 DETAILS

See

=over 4

=item RFC2060: "Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP4v1"

=back

Extends L<"DETAILS" in Mail::Server|Mail::Server/"DETAILS">.
 
=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box-IMAP4 distribution version 3.002,
built on June 29, 2017.

Do not forget to read
L<Mail::Box-Overview>,
L<Mail::Box-Cookbook>, and
L<Mail::Box-Index>.
Examples are included in the Mail-Box distribution, directories 'examples'
and 'scripts'.

Browseable manuals, papers, and other released material van be found
at  Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

The central modules (in separate distributions) in the MailBox suite are:
L<Mail::Message>,
L<Mail::Box>,
L<Mail::Box::IMAP4>,
L<Mail::Box::POP3>,
L<Mail::Box::Parser::C>,
L<Mail::Box::Dbx> (unpublished),
L<Mail::Transport>,
L<Object::Realize::Later>, and
L<User::Identity>.

Please post questions or ideas to the author F<markov@cpan.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

