=head1 NAME

Win32::GUI::ReleaseNotes::RN_0_0_670 - This is the release notes for Version 0.0.670 of Win32::GUI

=head1 Release Date

11th December, 2003

=head1 Summary of Changes

This release of Win32::GUI introduces many bug fix and new features
the most important being:

New :

  - add Hook/UnHook methods
  - new DateTime styles and methods
  - new RichEdit methods
  - improve GetOpenFileName / GetSaveFileName.
  - new _DropFiles Events
  - SendMessage now support a pointer to a string or a struct in LPARAM.
  - NEM KeyDown and KeyUp receive new parameter with virtual key value.
  - NEM Timer event

Bug:

  - Fix accelerator keys
  - Fix ImageList bug
  - Fix Windows XP Color
  - Fix options parsing for TextField 
  - Fix -prompt support on Textfield with -pos and -size option.
  - Fix DoEvents double events
  - Fix PeekMessage warm message
  - Fix menu enabled option.

Build :
  - MinGW support
  - ActivePerl 5.005 support


=head1 CHANGELOG

  + [Laurent Rocher]
	- GUI.pm : Change version to 0.0.670
	- GUI.h  : Set NO_XSLOCKS for perl 5.005
	- GUI_MessageLoops.cpp : Fix for perl 5.005
  + [Steve Pick]
	- GUI.xs : Update to Hook() - now returns previous handler coderef
      on hook reassignment, 0 if no previous assignment, and undef if error.
	- GUI_MessageLoops.cpp : Added code to call Hook()ed handlers to
      NEM_ChildMsgLoop
  + [Laurent Rocher]
	- GUI.pm : Add AddDatetime, AddGraphics methods
	- GUI.xs : Fix DoEvents double event, add some DateTime methods
      (GetTime, SetTime, SetNone, IsNone).
	- GUI_Options.cpp : Add option parsing for DateTime control
      (-align, -format, -shownone, -updown)
	- Typemap : LPARAM handle as string or integer.
  + [Steve Pick]
	- GUI.xs : Added Hook and UnHook methods. These let you do
      $win->Hook(MsgID, \&somesub); to hook a message to a sub. The sub
      must be a coderef, and is called with self, wparam and lparam args
      when the message is received by the window.
	- GUI.h  : Addition of avHooks to PERLWIN32GUI_CREATESTRUCT and
      PERLWIN32GUI_USERDATA.
	- GUI_MessageLoops.cpp : Addition of hook-calling code to
      NEM_WindowMsgLoop.
  + [Laurent Rocher]
	- GUI.pm : Fix -prompt option for TextField, correct color option for
      class (Win98SE).
	- GUI_Options.cpp : Correct -popstyle and -popexstyle like options.
  + [Glenn Linderman] GUI_Options.cpp : Correct menu -enabled option.
  + [Steve Pick] GUI.h : Added PERLWIN32GUI_NEM_TIMER event.
	- GUI.pm: fixed Win32::GUI::Class::new to avoid the "white background"
      syndrome on Windows 2000. Fixed conditional so that all operating
      systems with version above and including 5.1 have the
      no-white-background fix.
	- GUI_MessageLoops.cpp: added WM_TIMER event to NEM_WindowMsgLoop,
      now NEM handler -onTimer will be called whenever a timer added to
      the window triggers. The NAME of the timer is provided as an argument
      to the handler.
	- GUI_Options.cpp: Fix to allow -onTimer.
	- GUI_Events.cpp: NEM Events always returned PerlResult of -2, even
      if a handler was found and called for the event. Now it returns 0 if
      everything was successful, as it should judging by the rest of the code.
  + [Laurent Rocher] Add build with MinGW and ExtUtils-FakeConfig support.
      You can build Win32-GUI for ActiveState Perl with Free MingW Compiler.
      See HowTo : http://perso.club-internet.fr/rocherl/Win32GUI.html
  + [Steve Pick] GUI.pm: Fix ImageList bug
  + [Glenn Linderman] MessageLoops.cpp: Fix Window Cursor bug (Without
    return FALSE statement)
  + [Steve Pick] GUI.xs : Fix PeekMessage (move SvROK in inner if and
    remove sv_2mortal)
  + [Aldo Calpini] GUI.pm
	- fixed Win32::GUI::Class::new to avoid the "white background" syndrome
      on XP)
	- fixed a bug with options parsing in Win32::GUI::Textfield::new
	- reworked a little the code for Win32::GUI::AcceleratorTable
  + [Glenn Linderman] Accelerator key patch, Correct NotifyIcon DESTROY,
    add PM_* constants for use with TrackPopupMenu.
  + [Laurent Rocher] Fix some warnings, Remove unused variables, remove
    constants.c file.
  + [Trevor Garside] Add new RichEdit methods.
  + [Steve Pick & Laurent Rocher] Add parameters for WM_KEYDOWN and
    WM_KEYUP NEM events in NEM_ChildMsgLoop.
  + [Johan Lindstrom] Add WM_DROPFILES event in WindowMsgLoop.
  + [Laurent Rocher] Add new options for GetOpenFileName and GetSaveFileName.
  + [Jeremy White & Laurent Rocher] Add new datetime control methods
    and DTS_* styles constants.

=head1 Contributors to this release

=over

=item Jeremy White

=item Laurent Rocher

=item Johan Lindstrom

=item Steve Pick

=item Trevor Garside

=item Glenn Linderman

=item Aldo Calpini

=back

=cut
