=head1 NAME

Win32::GUI::ReleaseNotes::RN_1_03 - This is the release notes for Version 1.03 of Win32::GUI

=head1 Release Date

22nd November, 2005

=head1 Summary of Changes

This is a summary of changes between V1.02 and V1.03
See the CHANGELOG file in the distribution for the
full detail.

V1.03 is primarily a bug-fix release.

=head2 New Features

=head3 New Methods

=over

=item Win32::GUI

GetParent, UserData

=item Win32::GUI::DC

StretchBlt

=back

=head3 New Events

None.

=head3 New Documentation

As well as various minor documentation corrections and enhancements:

=over

=item Win32::GUI

GetAsyncKeyState

=item Win32::GUI::RichEdit

SetCharFormat, GetCharFormat, SetEventMask

=item Win32::GUI::Timer

New documentation for Win32::GUI::Timer and all Timer methods.

=item Win32::GUI::Tutorial

Updated all the Tutorial documentation and added tutorial
examples to the demos directory.

=back

=head3 Other Features

=over

=item Version information in GUI.dll

Right-click the DLL to see Version information on the version tab.

=item New tests

Many tests added

=item New samples

Added listvew_drag_drop.pl to the samples demonstrating the use
of drag/drop with a ListView

=item Update ImageList support

ImageList support is now complete under MinGW and Cygwin if
headers are recent enough (w32api V3.2 or higher)

=back

=head2 Bug Fixes

=head3 Reported Bugs

Fix to 4 item call to TrackPopupMenu.  Tracker 1241830

GUI.pm Fix to logic in Win32::GUI::Class::new for perl 5.8.6
and above. Tracker:1236053

GUI.pm fixed Win32::GUI::Brush to return undef on failure

GUI_messageloops.cpp: Tracker 1246429 fixed WM_CTLCOLORSTATIC
for handling readonly Edit controls

Tooltip.xs, GUI.xs fixed Tooltip styles (Tracker: 1273134)

GUI_MessageLoops.cpp change all mouse event handlers to use
GET_X_LPARAM and GET_Y_LPARAM rather than HIWORD and LOWORD (Tracker: 1262098)

GUI.xs fixed UnHook() to resolve perl 5.6/5.8 differences in
av_delete, causing a warning in perl 5.8 (Tracker: 1164766)

GUI.xs: Changed DoModal's use of GetParent to
GetWindow(hwnd, GW_OWNER).  (Tracker: 1165626)

GUI_messageloops.cpp: Tracker:1236283 Change to WM_ERASEBACKGROUND
to allow -background to work with windows

=head3 Other Bugs

GUI_messageloops.cpp: Fixed WM_CTLCOLOR* to use window class
background brush if there is one

Richedit.xs fix SetCharFormat/GetCharFormat option

GUI.pm Timer fixes (Reini Urban)

GUI.pm fixed Win32::GUI::DC::new() with no params to return a
correct object

GUI_Constants.cpp: correct TMP_NONOTIFY to TPM_NONOTIFY (aschwarz1309)

Listbox.xs: fixed buffer overrun in GetText causing crash (Jez White)

Combobox.xs: fixed buffer overrun in GetLBText causing crash (Jez White)

GUI.xs: fixed return value of GetAsyncKeyState

Re-worked Win32::GUI::Timer package implementation.  Now destruction
works correctly.

=head1 Contributors to this release

=over

=item Dan Dascalescu

=item Reini Urban

=item Jeremy White

=item aschwarz1309

=item Robert May

=back

=cut
