

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Compress::Huffman::Binary - Binary-only Huffman coding

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    
    use FindBin '$Bin';
    use Compress::Huffman::Binary ':all';
    my $input = 'something or another';
    my $output = huffman_encode ($input);
    my $roundtrip = huffman_decode ($output);
    if ($input eq $roundtrip) {
        print "OK.\n";
    }
    else {
        print "FAIL!\n";
    }


produces output

    OK.


(This example is included as L<F<synopsis.pl>|https://api.metacpan.org/source/BKB/Compress-Huffman-Binary-0.01/examples/synopsis.pl> in the distribution.)


=head1 VERSION

This documents version 0.01 of Compress::Huffman::Binary
corresponding to git commit 13dc76cb630de085d842bc162807d2f274f53453 released on Wed Feb 22 09:18:24 2017 +0900.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a binary-only version of L<Compress::Huffman>, written in C,
which supports encoding of input to a file. This module is
experimental, it is in an evaluation phase, and its interface may
change.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 huffman_encode

    my $out = huffman_encode ($in);

This converts C<$in> into a huffman-encoded form based on counts of
the bytes.

=head2 huffman_decode

    my $out = huffman_decode ($in);

This converts C<$out> back out of the huffman-encoded form given by
L</huffman_encode>.

=head1 EXPORTS

L</huffman_encode> and L</huffman_decode> are exported on request.


=head1 AUTHOR

Ben Bullock, <bkb@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENCE

This package and associated files are copyright (C) 
2016-2017
Ben Bullock.

You can use, copy, modify and redistribute this package and associated
files under the Perl Artistic Licence or the GNU General Public
Licence.




This module is based on L<https://github.com/drichardson/huffman> by
Doug Richardson. The licence for that software is as follows:

Copyright (c) 2007, Douglas Ryan Richardson, Gauss Interprise, Inc

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
  documentation and/or other materials provided with the
  distribution.

* Neither the name of Gauss Interprise, Inc nor the names of its
  contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
  from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
