=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Math::GF::Extension - Elements for arithmetics over extensions of Zn

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use Math::GF;
   my $field = Math::GF->new(order => 8);

   # one is-a Math::GF::Extension because 8 is 2 elevated to 3
   my $one = $field->multiplicative_neutral;


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module implements elements and operations over a Galois Field based
on powers of a prime (where the power is greater than 1). You are not
supposed to generate instances of this class directly, but only through
L<Math::GF> (see L</SYNOPSIS> above for an example).

=head1 OPERATORS

This module overrides some arithmetic and comparison operators, namely:

   + - * / **
   == != eq

Additionally, the stringification operator C<""> is overloaded too.

=head1 METHODS

In the following, C<$e> is supposed to be a C<Math::GF::Extension> object.

=begin HIDE

=head2 B<< BUILD_multiplicative_inverse >>

Builder for L</i>.

=head2 B<< BUILD_additive_inverse >>

Builder for L</o>.

=end HIDE

=head2 B<< assert_compatibility >>

   my $n = $e->assert_compatibility($other_element);

Assert the compatibility of this object C<$e> with C<$other_element>. It
is defined as follows:

=over

=item *

C<$other_element> is-a C<Math::GF::Extension>

=item *

C<$other_element> is based on the same field, i.e. it has the same
I<order> as C<$e>, i.e. it shares the same L</p> and L</n>.

=back

Throws an error if the conditions are not met.

Returns the I<order> (as L</p> elevated to L</n>, always a true value in
Perl) if successful, a false value otherwise.

=head2 B<< divided_by >>

   my $d = $e->divided_by($other_element);

Evaluate C<$e> divided by C<$other_element>. Calls
L</assert_compatibility>. Used in the implementation of the C</>
overloaded operator.

=head2 B<< equal_to >>

   my $bool = $e->equal_to($other_element);

Asses equality of C<$e> and C<$other_element>. Calls
L</assert_compatibility>. Used in the implementation of the C<==> and
C<eq> overloaded operators.

=head2 B<< field >>

   my $field = $e->field;

Accessor for the field where this element belongs.

=head2 B<< i >>

   my $i = $e->i;

The I<reference value> for the multiplicative inverse of this object.

=head2 B<< inv >>

   my $inv = $e->inv;

A C<Math::GF::Extension> element belonging to the same L</field> that is
the multiplicative inverse of this object.

=head2 B<< minus >>

   my $difference = $e->minus($other_element);

Evaluate difference of C<$e> and C<$other_element>. Calls
L</assert_compatibility>. Used in the implementation of the C<->
overloaded operator.

=head2 B<< n >>

   my $n = $e->n;

Power of the prime for the extension field. Same as C<< $e->field->n >>.

=head2 B<< not_equal_to >>

   my $bool = $e->not_equal_to($other_element);

Asses disequality of C<$e> and C<$other_element>. Calls
L</assert_compatibility>. Used in the implementation of the C<!=>
overloaded operator.

=head2 B<< o >>

   my $i = $e->o;

The I<reference value> for the additive inverse (opposite) of this object.

=head2 B<< opp >>

   my $opp = $e->opp;

A C<Math::GF::Extension> element belonging to the same L</field> that is the
additive inverse of this object.

=head2 B<< p >>

   my $p = $e->p;

Prime integer at the base of the extension field. Same as C<< $e->field->p >>.

=head2 B<< plus >>

   my $sum = $e->plus($other_element);

Evaluate sum of C<$e> and C<$other_element>. Calls
L</assert_compatibility>. Used in the implementation of the C<+>
overloaded operator.

=head2 B<< stringify >>

   my $string = $e->stringify;

Get a string representation of the object. It does just return L</v>. Used
in the implementation of the C<""> overloaded operator.

=head2 B<< times >>

   my $prod = $e->times($other_element);

Evaluate product of C<$e> and C<$other_element>. Calls
L</assert_compatibility>. Used in the implementation of the C<*>
overloaded operator.

=head2 B<< to_power >>

   my $pow = $e->to_power($exp);

Evaluate the power of C<$e> to C<$exp>. Used in the implementation of the
C<**> overloaded operator.

=head2 B<< v >>

   my $v = $e->v;

A I<reference integer value> for this object, comprised between C<0> and
one less than the order (i.e. L</p> elevated to L</n>). This value can not
be used directly for modulo operations (this does not work in extension
fields).


=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

Report bugs through GitHub (patches welcome).

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Math::GF>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Flavio Poletti <polettix@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2017, 2018 by Flavio Poletti <polettix@cpan.org>

This module is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

=cut
