=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::MSE::KeyExchange - Diffie-Hellman and RC4 Key Management

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::MSE::KeyExchange;

    my $kx = Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::MSE::KeyExchange->new(
        infohash     => $bin_ih,
        is_initiator => 1
    );

    # Share this with the peer
    my $my_pub = $kx->public_key();

    # Compute shared secret once peer's key arrives
    $kx->compute_secret( $remote_pub );

    # Get ready-to-use ciphers
    my $cipher = $kx->encrypt_rc4();
    $cipher->crypt( $plaintext );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module handles the 768-bit Diffie-Hellman key exchange and RC4 stream cipher management for BitTorrent encryption.
It uses a fixed 768-bit safe prime (P) and generator (G=2) as defined in the MSE specification.

=head1 METHODS (KeyExchange)

=head2 C<new( %params )>

Creates a new KeyExchange object.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<infohash>

The 20-byte binary infohash.

=item C<is_initiator>

Boolean. True if we are the connection initiator.

=back

=head2 C<compute_secret( $remote_pub_bytes )>

Computes the shared secret using the remote peer's public key and derives the RC4 encryption and decryption keys. This
method automatically discards the first B<1024 bytes> of both RC4 keystreams to mitigate known weaknesses in the RC4
cipher's initial output (a requirement of the MSE spec).

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$remote_pub_bytes>

The 96-byte binary public key from the peer.

=back

=head2 C<get_secret( )>

Returns the computed 96-byte binary shared secret.

    my $s = $kx->get_secret();

=head2 C<get_sync_data( [$override_ih] )>

Returns the hashes needed for MSE synchronization.

    my ($req1, $xor_mask) = $kx->get_sync_data();

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$override_ih> - optional

A binary infohash to use instead of the one passed to the constructor.

=back

=head2 C<verify_skey( $xor_block, $candidate_ih )>

Verifies if an XORed SKEY matches a candidate infohash.

    my $ok = $kx->verify_skey( $block, $ih );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$xor_block>

The 20-byte XORed block from the peer.

=item C<$candidate_ih>

The 20-byte binary infohash to check.

=back

=head2 C<init_rc4( $ih )>

Initializes the RC4 encryptor and decryptor.

    $kx->init_rc4( $ih );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$ih>

The negotiated binary infohash.

=back

=head2 C<scan_for_vc( $buffer )>

Scans a buffer for the encrypted Verification Constant (VC).

    my $offset = $kx->scan_for_vc( $incoming_data );

This method uses brute force to find the sync point in an encrypted stream.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$buffer>

The raw data buffer to scan.

=back

=head2 C<infohash( )>

Returns the configured infohash.

=head2 C<is_initiator( )>

Returns true if we are the connection initiator.

=head2 C<public_key( )>

Returns our 96-byte binary public key.

=head2 C<encrypt_rc4( )>

Returns the L<Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::MSE::RC4> object for encryption.

=head2 C<decrypt_rc4( )>

Returns the L<Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::MSE::RC4> object for decryption.

=head1 METHODS (RC4)

=head2 C<discard( $bytes )>

Discards bytes from the PRGA stream.

    $rc4->discard( 1024 );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$bytes>

The number of bytes to discard.

=back

=head2 C<crypt( $data )>

XORs data with the RC4 stream.

    my $cipher = $rc4->crypt( $plain );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$data>

The binary data to process.

=back

=head2 C<snapshot( )>

Returns a lightweight snapshot of the RC4 state.

    my $snap = $rc4->snapshot();

=head2 C<restore( $snap )>

Restores the RC4 state from a snapshot.

    $rc4->restore( $snap );

Expected parameters:

=over

=item C<$snap>

The snapshot data.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson - L<https://github.com/sanko>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2008-2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
