=head1 NAME

Inline::Java::PerlInterpreter - Call Perl directly from Java using Inline::Java.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for comment

   import org.perl.inline.java.* ;

   class HelpMePerl {
      static private InlineJavaPerlInterpreter pi = null ;

      public HelpMePerl() throws InlineJavaException {
      }

      static private boolean matches(String target, String pattern)
      	throws InlineJavaPerlException, InlineJavaException {
        Boolean b = (Boolean)pi.eval("'" + target + "' =~ /" + pattern + "/", Boolean.class) ;
        return b.booleanValue() ;
      }

      public static void main(String args[])
	     throws InlineJavaPerlException, InlineJavaException {
         pi = InlineJavaPerlInterpreter.create() ;

         String target = "aaabbbccc" ;
         String pattern = "ab+" ;
         boolean ret = matches(target, pattern) ;

         System.out.println(
           target + (ret ? " matches " : " doesn't match ") + pattern) ;
           
         pi.destroy() ;
      }
   }

=for comment


=head1 DESCRIPTION

WARNING: C<Inline::Java::PerlInterpreter> is still experimental.

The C<org.perl.inline.java.InlineJavaPerlInterpreter> Java class allows
you to load a Perl interpreter directly from Java. You can then perform
regular callbacks to call into Perl.
   Z<>


=head1 USING THE org.perl.inline.java.InlineJavaPerlInterpreter CLASS

B<Installation>

Before using C<org.perl.inline.java.InlineJavaPerlInterpreter>, you must
have installed C<Inline::Java> as well as the JNI extension. Additionally,
the PerlInterpreter extension must also have been installed.

B<Finding the jar>

To be able to use the C<org.perl.inline.java.InlineJavaPerlInterpreter> 
class, you must use the jar file provided by C<Inline::Java>. You can 
easily locate this jar file using the following command:

   % perl -MInline::Java=jar
      
You must then add this jar file to your CLASSPATH as you would any jar
file.

B<Basic Usage>

C<org.perl.inline.java.InlineJavaPerlInterpreter> itself extends
C<org.perl.inline.java.InlineJavaPerlCaller>. See L<Inline::Java::Callback>
for information on the callback API.

Besides that API, C<org.perl.inline.java.InlineJavaPerlInterpreter> provides
only 2 other public methods:

=over 4

=item public InlineJavaPerlInterpreter create() 
throws InlineJavaPerlException, InlineJavaException 
    
Creates a new org.perl.inline.java.InlineJavaPerlInterpreter object.
This class in a singleton.
     
=item public void destroy()
  
Destroys the Perl interpreter.

=back


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Inline::Java>, L<Inline::Java::Callback>, L<Inline::Java::PerlNatives>.
   Z<>


=head1 AUTHOR

Patrick LeBoutillier <patl@cpan.org> is the author of Inline::Java.
   Z<>


=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2001-2004, Patrick LeBoutillier.

All Rights Reserved. This module is free software. It may be used,
redistributed and/or modified under the terms of the Perl Artistic
License. See http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html for more
details.

=cut
