=head1 NAME

Examples

=head2 USING THE BRANCHOFF:ROOT MODEL

=head3 The Config Spec

 ##:BranchOff: root
 element * CHECKEDOUT
 element * .../tt/LATEST
 mkbranch tt
 element * TTT
 element * BL
 element /main/0

Most of this is standard. Let's read it from the bottom up:

=over

=item /main/0: handle new elements, not bearing any label yet

=item BL: a common baseline

=item TTT: our own label--more on it later

=item mkbranch tt: a directive applying to the 3 previous (which follow it)

=item .../tt/LATEST: catch our versions, before we labeled them

=item CHECKEDOUT: catch our versions, before we checked them in

=item ##:BranchOff: root: an extension of this wrapper

=back

What these rules describe is a process by which the user:

=over 2

=item * Always and exclusively edits files in her own branches

=item * Applies labels as she pleases, either to communicate of her
progress to others while offering consistent change sets, or just to
keep save points for herself

=item * Delivers by moving a baseline label which she uses herself
(we'll see later how she ensures that she doesn't let her previous
deliveries hide common changes)

=item * May at any time merge I<home>, i.e. I<rebase> the versions she
is actively working on in her branches.

=back

One of our goals will be to make this config spec as stable as
possible, i.e. to manage changes by means not requiring us to modify
it.
A good reason for that is that config specs are not versioned.

A second goal is to systematically branch out for making new versions
(unless already on a I<tt> branch). The rationale is that this is
always possible, independent from mastership or checked out state.

A third goal is to avoid cascading, thus to always branch from the
root branch (usually I<main>). This must be explicitly enabled, and is
thus governed by our special setting on line 1.

=head3 First Use: Nothing Special

 $ ct mkbrtype -nc tt
 Created branch type "tt".
 $ ct co -nc .
 Created branch "tt" from "." version "/main/0".
 Checked out "." from version "/main/tt/0".
 $ ct mkdir -nc a
 Created directory element "a".
 Created branch "tt" from "a" version "/main/0".
 Checked out "a" from version "/main/tt/0".
 $ ct mkelem -nc -ci a/foo
 Created element "a/foo" (type "text_file").
 Created branch "tt" from "a/foo" version "/main/0".
 Checked in "a/foo" version "/main/tt/1".
 $ ct ci -nc a
 Checked in "a" version "/main/tt/1".

=head2 APPLYING INCREMENTAL LABELS

=head3 Create a family label type

 $ ct mklbtype -c 'Family demo' -fam TTT
 Created label type "TTT_1.00".
 Created label type "TTT".
 Created attribute type "RmTTT".

Note that this creates:

=over

=item A I<floating> type: TTT

=item An equivalent I<fixed> type: TTT_1.00

=item An attribute type dedicated to the family (see: I<rmlabel> below).

=back

=head3 Apply the base labels

 $ ct mklabel -rec TTT .
 Created label "TTT_1.00" on "." version "/main/tt/1".
 Created label "TTT" on "." version "/main/tt/1".
 Created label "TTT_1.00" on "a" version "/main/tt/1".
 Created label "TTT" on "a" version "/main/tt/1".
 Created label "TTT_1.00" on "a/foo" version "/main/tt/1".
 Created label "TTT" on "a/foo" version "/main/tt/1".

The labels are applied in pairs: fixed, and floating.
The first application is thus significantly slower than usual (~4 times),
but this impact is typically negligible, on an initial tree with only
few elements.

=head3 Lock the label types

 $ ct lock lbtype:TTT
 Locked label type "TTT".
 Locked label type "TTT_1.00".

This is not mandatory of course, but it is a good idea, and it is supported.
The fixed type should not be moved anymore, so why not locking it?

The floating label will get unlocked as needed, but locking it
communicates its state to others, and leaves a timestamp (the latest
one does not get scrubbed).

=head3 Increment the label type

 $ ct mklbtype -c 'Increment demo' -inc TTT
 Unlocked label type "TTT".
 Unlocked label type "TTT_1.00".
 Created label type "TTT_1.01".
 Locked label type "TTT_1.00".

A new incremental fixed label is created.
It gets linked to the previous one, which is thus unlocked,
and locked back.

=head3 Make a change, and label incrementally

 $ ct co -nc a/foo
 Checked out "a/foo" from version "/main/tt/1".
 $ ct ci -nc -ide a/foo
 Checked in "a/foo" version "/main/tt/2".
 $ ct mklabel -over tt TTT .
 Created label "TTT_1.01" on "a/foo" version "/main/tt/2".
 Moved label "TTT" on "a/foo" from version "/main/tt/1" to "/main/tt/2".

We use the I<-over tt> option as a way to optimize the labeling speed.
Note that it also restricts the application to checked-in versions.

Labeling recursively would display the same incremental behaviour,
possibly applying labels to checked-out versions.

=head3 Check the results so far

 $ ct lsgen a/foo a
 a/foo@@/main/tt/2 (TTT, TTT_1.01)
  a/foo@@/main/tt/1 (TTT_1.00)
 a@@/main/tt/1 (TTT, TTT_1.00)

We examine two objects, with the I<lsgenealogy> command.

This one navigates I<Merge> hyperlinks to present the recent history
of contribution to the selected versions.

We note that the floating label designates a (full) baseline, whereas
the fixed labels are I<sparse> and designate thus the successive
change sets.

=head3 Increment again, to remove a label

 $ ct mklbtype -c 'Remove label' -inc TTT
 Created label type "TTT_1.02".
 $ ct rmlabel TTT a/foo
 Removed label "TTT" from "a/foo" version "/main/tt/2".

What we want to demonstrate now is a way to restore a past
configuration.  For this we shall still create one version and apply
one more increment, in order to build up enough of history.

 $ ct co -nc a/foo
 Checked out "a/foo" from version "/main/tt/2".
 $ ct ci -nc -ide a/foo
 Checked in "a/foo" version "/main/tt/3".
 $ ct mklbtype -c 'Restore old config' -inc TTT
 Created label type "TTT_1.03".
 $ ct mklabel -over tt TTT .
 Created label "TTT_1.03" on "a/foo" version "/main/tt/3".
 Created label "TTT" on "./a/foo" version "/main/tt/3".

Note that the floating label was created, not moved, since we had
removed it previously.

=head2 ARCHIVING BRANCHES AND LABELS

=head3 Archive to label

Currently, our config spec selects the version of I<foo> with our
I<tt> branch, i.e. doesn't use our labels.
Let's change this:

 $ ct ls a/foo
 a/foo@@/main/tt/3                                        Rule: .../tt/LATEST
 $ ct mkbrtype -nc -arc tt
 Renamed branch type from "tt" to "tt-001".
 Created branch type "tt".
 $ ct ls a/foo
 a/foo@@/main/tt-001/3                                    Rule: TTT [-mkbranch tt]

Now we are using our label, placing ourselves in the same situation as
anybody else who would want to share our code in a collaborative
manner.

This step has admittedly only a temporary effect, and thus doesn't
change much: it is only a publication but not yet a delivery. It may
help us to narrow down the change set on which we are actively working
without losing sight that we did not yet deliver our prior results.

Note how we didn't need to change our config spec, but only to reinterpret it.

Note finally how our config spec preserved the continuity of the selection.

=head3 Checking out after archiving

 $ ct co -nc a/foo
 Created branch "tt" from "a/foo" version "/main/0".
 Checked out "a/foo" from version "/main/tt/0".
 $ ct ci -c 'after archiving' -ide a/foo
 Checked in "a/foo" version "/main/tt/1".
 $ ct lsgen a/foo
 a/foo@@/main/tt/1
  a/foo@@/main/tt-001/3 (TTT, TTT_1.03)
   a/foo@@/main/tt-001/2 (TTT_1.01)
    a/foo@@/main/tt-001/1 (TTT_1.00)

Now, we really experimented our cascade prevention, i.e. branching off
root.  The continuity of the data is preserved, as well, using the
I<lsgenealogy> tool, as this of the version history.

=head3 Delivery

We could deliver directly from branches, assuming all the changes
would still be in branches of the same type. If this is not the case,
we'd rather consolidate our results first, using labels.
We may start with a I<home merge> (aka I<rebase>):

 $ ct findmerge . -fve BL -merge

Assuming this confirmed that no delivery had taken place which we
wouldn't have already taken into consideration, we can now label and
archive the branches, skipping for now the outputs of the commands:

 $ ct mklbtype -c Consolidation -inc TTT
 $ ct mklabel -over tt TTT
 $ ct mkbrtype -nc -arc tt

Now the delivery, from the TTT labels:

 $ ct mklbtype -nc -inc BL
 $ ct mklabel -over TTT BL
 $ ct mklbtype -nc -arc TTT
 Renamed label type from "TTT" to "TTT-001".
 Created label type "TTT".
 Renamed label type from "TTT" to "TTT_0".
 Locked label type "TTT_0".
 Locked label type "TTT-001".
 Locked label type "TTT_1.00".
 $ ct lock lbtype:BL

Two interesting points here (beyond the process itself):

=over 2

=item * The fact that we could unlock, and lock back the I<BL> type,
although we do not own it: this is an extension of the wrapper (the
events are duly logged) to allow group members (configurable) to
lock/unlock each other's types

=item * The way archiving label types differed from archiving branch types:

=over 2

=item * As for branch types, the label type is renamed I<away> from
matching anything via the config spec

=item * Again similarily, a new type is created but contrarily to the
case of branch types, this one is not left in the open, but I<hidden>
away.

=back

=back

The new hidden type keeps track of the state of the family (what would
the next increment be), and it would be resurrected by a next
I<mklbtype -fam> command.

One only creates a label type when one intends to use it
I<explicitly>, whereas a brtype is there just in case, to be used
I<implicitly> in a I<checkout>.

Anyway, the result of the delivery is that we are using everything by
the I<BL> labels.

=head2 REPRODUCING A PAST CONFIGURATION

=head3 Clone a view, in the state it was on January 1.

 $ ct mkview -tag ttt_Jan1 -clone ttt -equiv TTT,1-Jan
 Created view.
 Host-local path: jeeves:/views/mg/ttt.vws
 Global path:     /views/mg/ttt.vws
 It has the following rights:
 User : mg       : rwx
 Group: foo      : rwx
 Other:          : r-x
 $ diff /views/mg/ttt.vws/config_spec /views/mg/ttt_Jan1.vws/config_spec
 0a1
 > time 2011-01-01T00:00:00+0000
 3d3
 < element * .../mg/LATEST
 5c5
 < element * TTT
 ---
 > include /views/mg/ttt_Jan1.vws/TTT.2011-01-01T00:00:00+0000
 $ ct setview ttt_Jan1
 $ ct ls -d a/foo a
 a/foo@@/main/tt-001/2            Rule: {lbtype(TTT_1.01)&&!attr_sub(RmTTT,<=,1.01)}
 a@@/main/tt-001/1                Rule: {lbtype(TTT_1.00)&&!attr_sub(RmTTT,<=,1.01)}

The script made three modifications to the initial config spec:

=over 2

=item * It added a time rule, corresponding to the specified time..

=item * It removed rules based on branches using a type created after
the specified time.

=item * It replaced the I<TTT> rule (hence preserving the order of the
rules) with a directive including set of rules, equivalent to the
I<TTT> floating label at the specified time. This is achieved by
determining the the fixed label in the family, which was then
'equivalent' to I<TTT>: I<TTT_1.01>.

=back

We checked that these rules selected the correct versions of our two
reference elements (the I<foo> file, and the I<a> directory).

Let's examine the new file:

 $ cat /views/mg/ttt.vws/TTT.2011-01-01T00:00:00+0000
 element * "{lbtype(TTT_1.01)&&!attr_sub(RmTTT,<=,1.01)}"
 element * "{lbtype(TTT_1.00)&&!attr_sub(RmTTT,<=,1.01)}"

=head3 Examine config specs equivalent to 1.02 and 1.03 stages of TTT

 $ ct mkview -tag ttt_1.02 -clone ttt -equiv TTT_1.02
 $ ct setview ttt_1.02
 $ ct ls -d a/foo a
 a/foo@@/main/0                   Rule: /main/0 [-mkbranch tt]
 a@@/main/tt-001/1                Rule: {lbtype(TTT_1.00)&&!attr_sub(RmTTT,<=,1.02)}
 $ ct mkview -tag ttt_1.03 -clone ttt -equiv TTT_1.03
 $ ct setview ttt_1.03
 $ ct ls -d a/foo a
 a/foo@@/main/tt-001/3            Rule: {lbtype(TTT_1.03)&&!attr_sub(RmTTT,<=,1.03)}
 a@@/main/tt-001/1                Rule: {lbtype(TTT_1.00)&&!attr_sub(RmTTT,<=,1.03)}

We can now see the meaning of I<RmTTT>, and see how attributes of this
type were added to the different versions of the tree:

 $ ct lsvtree -s a/foo | perl -ple 's/(.*)/des -fmt "\%Vn \%Nl \%Na\\n" $1/' | ct
 /main
 /main/0
 /main/tt-001
 /main/tt-001/1 TTT_1.00 RmTTT=1.02
 /main/tt-001/2 TTT_1.01 RmTTT=1.02
 /main/tt-001/3 TTT_1.03
 /main/tt-002
 /main/tt-002/1 BL BL_2.13 TTT-001 TTT_1.04

This command shows the versions, with the labels, and the attributes they bear.
Of course, one can also use I<lsgen> (not showing the attributes):

 $ ct lsgen a/foo
 a/foo@@/main/tt-002/1 (BL, BL_2.13, TTT-001, TTT_1.04)
  a/foo@@/main/tt-001/3 (TTT_1.03)
   a/foo@@/main/tt-001/2 (TTT_1.01)
    a/foo@@/main/tt-001/1 (TTT_1.00)

Given the profusion of labels, the I<lsgen> command was made to support
an enhanced version of the I<-fmt> option, allowing to filter label
types with a Perl regexp.
Note that this also allows e.g. to show attributes, to shorten the
output to versions only (the element name being common), and to
display comments:

 $ ct lsgen -fmt '%Vn %[^TTT(_[\d.]+)?$]Nl %Na "%Nc"' a/foo
 /main/tt-002/1 TTT_1.04  "after archiving"
  /main/tt-001/3 TTT_1.03  ""
   /main/tt-001/2 TTT_1.01 RmTTT=1.02 ""
    /main/tt-001/1 TTT_1.00 RmTTT=1.02 ""

=head3 Pick the right increment/date

One needs a convenient way to figure what increment and what date
correspond to which changes. Fortunately, the I<-family> extension of
I<describe> allows you to apply the formats of your choice to each and
every element of the type family:

 $ ct des -fmt "%n %d %Nc\n" -fam lbtype:TTT-001
 TTT_1.04 2011-01-31T16:30:41Z Consolidation
 TTT_1.03 2011-01-28T19:51:17Z Restore old config
 TTT_1.02 2011-01-28T19:49:35Z Remove label
 TTT_1.01 2011-01-28T19:41:55Z Increment demo
 TTT_1.00 2011-01-26T17:35:39Z Family demo
