#------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# afsmonitor.pod
#
# Copyright © 2004 Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu> and
#                  Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>
#
# $Revision: 1.4 $ $Date: 2004/08/05 20:52:03 $ $Author: alfw $
#
# This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

B<afsmonitor Program Statistics> - a list of the statistics you can gather with the afsmonitor program.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A complete listing of Cache Manager and File Server statistics gathered by the
L<afsmonitor(1)> function. The statistics are grouped by category and section,
with a brief description of each field, group, and section. For more information
about the L<afsmonitor(1)> function, see the L<afsmonitor(1)> documentation.

=head1 The Cache Manager Statistics

Cache Manager statistics fields are classified into the following sections and
groups:

=over

=item *

PerfStats_section - Performance Statistics Section.

=over

=item *

PerfStats_group - Performance Statistics Group.

=item *

misc_group - Miscellaneous Group.

=back

=item *

Server_UpDown_section - Server Up/Down Statistics Section.

=over

=item *

FS_upDown_SC_group - File Server Up/Down Statistics in Same Cell Group.

=item *

FS_upDown_OC_group - File Server Up/Down Statistics in Other Cells Group.

=item *

VL_upDown_SC_group - VL Server Up/Down Statistics in Same Cell Group.

=item *

VL_upDown_OC_group - VL Server Up/Down Statistics in Other Cells Group.

=back

=item *

RPCop_section - RPC Operation Measurements Section.

=over

=item *

FS_RPCopTimes_group - File Server RPC Operation Timings Group.

=item *

FS_RPCopErrors_group - File Server RPC Operation Errors Group.

=item *

FS_RPCopBytes_group - File Server RPC Transfer Timings Group.

=item *

CM_RPCopTimes_group - Cache Manager RPC Operation Timings Group.

=back

=item *

Auth_Access_section - Authentication and Replicated File Access Section.

=over

=item *

Auth_Stats_group - Authentication Information for Cache Manager Group.

=item *

Access_Stats_group - Unreplicated File Access Group.

=back

=back

All Cache Manager variables categorized under these sections and groups names
are listed below.

=head2 Performance Statistics Section (PerfStats_section)

Performance Statistics Group (PerfStats_group)

=over

=item *

dlocalAccesses: Number of data accesses to files within local cell.

=item *

vlocalAccesses: Number of stat accesses to files within local cell.

=item *

dremoteAccesses: Number of data accesses to files outside of local cell.

=item *

vremoteAccesses: Number of stat accesses to files outside of local cell.

=item *

cacheNumEntries: Number of cache entries.

=item *

cacheBlocksTotal: Number of (1K) blocks configured for cache.

=item *

cacheBlocksInUse: Number of cache blocks actively in use.

=item *

cacheBlocksOrig: Number of cache blocks at bootup.

=item *

cacheMaxDirtyChunks: Maximum number of dirty cache chunks tolerated.

=item *

cacheCurrDirtyChunks: Current number of dirty cache chunks.

=item *

dcacheHits: Number of data files found in local cache.

=item *

vcacheHits: Number of stat entries found in local cache.

=item *

dcacheMisses: Number of data files not found in local cache.

=item *

vcacheMisses: Number of stat entries not found in local cache.

=item *

cacheFlushes: Number of files flushed from cache.

=item *

cacheFilesReused: Number of cache files reused.

=item *

vcacheXAllocs: Additionally allocated vcaches.

=item *

dcacheXAllocs: Additionally allocated dcaches.

=item *

bufAlloced: Number of buffers allocated by AFS.

=item *

bufHits: Number of pages found on buffer cache.

=item *

bufMisses: Number of pages not found on buffer cache.

=item *

bufFlushDirty: Number of cached dirty buffers flushed because all were busy.

=item *

LargeBlocksActive: Number of currently used large free pool entries.

=item *

LargeBlocksAlloced: Number of allocated large free pool entries.

=item *

SmallBlocksActive: Number of currently used small free pool entries.

=item *

SmallBlocksAlloced: Number of allocated used small free pool entries.

=item *

OutStandingMemUsage: Amount of allocated memory.

=item *

OutStandingAllocs: Outstanding osi_allocs (no osi_frees yet).

=item *

CallBackAlloced: Number of callback structures allocated.

=item *

CallBackFlushes: Number of callback flush operations performed.

=item *

srvRecords: Number of servers currently on record.

=item *

srvRecordsHWM: Server record high water mark.

=item *

srvNumBuckets: Number of server hash chain buckets.

=item *

srvMaxChainLength: Maximum server hash chain length.

=item *

srvMaxChainLengthHWM: Server hash chain high water mark.

=item *

sysName_ID: Sysname ID for host hardware.

=back

Miscellaneous Group (misc_group)

=over

=item *

numPerfCalls: Number of performance calls received.

=item *

epoch: Cache Manager epoch time.

=item *

numCellsVisible: Number of cells we know about.

=item *

numCellsContacted: Number of cells contacted.

=back

=head2 Server Up/Down Statistics Section (Server_UpDown_section)

File Server Up/Down Statistics in Same Cell Group (FS_upDown_SC_group)

Note: The records referred to in this section are the internal records kept by the afsmonitor program to track the processes from which data is being gathered.

=over

=item *

fs_sc_numTtlRecords: Number of fileserver records, active or inactive.

=item *

fs_sc_numUpRecords: Number of (active) fileserver records currently marked up.

=item *

fs_sc_numDownRecords: Number of (active) fileserver records currently marked down.

=item *

fs_sc_sumOfRecordAges: Sum of fileserver record lifetimes.

=item *

fs_sc_ageOfYoungestRecord: Age of youngest fileserver record.

=item *

fs_sc_ageOfOldestRecord: Age of oldest fileserver record.

=item *

fs_sc_numDowntimeIncidents: Number of (completed) downtime incidents.

=item *

fs_sc_numRecordsNeverDown: Number of fileserver records never marked down.

=item *

fs_sc_maxDowntimesInARecord: Maximum downtimes seen by any fileserver record.

=item *

fs_sc_sumOfDowntimes: Sum of all (completed) downtimes, in seconds.

=item *

fs_sc_shortestDowntime: Shortest downtime, in seconds.

=item *

fs_sc_longestDowntime: Longest downtime, in seconds.

=item *

fs_sc_down_0_10_min: Down time incidents: 0-10 minutes.

=item *

fs_sc_down_10_30_min: Down time incidents: 10-30 minutes.

=item *

fs_sc_down_half_1_hr: Down time incidents: 30-60 minutes.

=item *

fs_sc_down_1_2_hr: Down time incidents: 1-2 hours.

=item *

fs_sc_down_2_4_hr: Down time incidents: 2-4 hours.

=item *

fs_sc_down_4_8_hr: Down time incidents: 4-8 hours.

=item *

fs_sc_down_more_8_hr: Down time incidents: more than 8 hours.

=item *

fs_sc_downDst_0: Down time incidents: 0 times.

=item *

fs_sc_downDst_1: Down time incidents: 1 time.

=item *

fs_sc_downDst_2_5: Down time incidents: 2-5 times.

=item *

fs_sc_downDst_6_10: Down time incidents: 6-10 times.

=item *

fs_sc_downDst_10_50: Down time incidents: 10-50 times.

=item *

fs_sc_downDst_more_50: Down time incidents: more than 50 times.

=back

File Server Up/Down Statistics in Other Cells Group (FS_upDown_OC_group)

=over

=item *

fs_oc_numTtlRecords: Number of fileserver records, active or inactive.

=item *

fs_oc_numUpRecords: Number of (active) fileserver records currently marked up.

=item *

fs_oc_numDownRecords: Number of (active) fileserver records currently marked down.

=item *

fs_oc_sumOfRecordAges: Sum of server record lifetimes.

=item *

fs_oc_ageOfYoungestRecord: Age of youngest fileserver record.

=item *

fs_oc_ageOfOldestRecord: Age of oldest fileserver record.

=item *

fs_oc_numDowntimeIncidents: Number of (completed) downtime incidents.

=item *

fs_oc_numRecordsNeverDown: Number of fileserver records never marked down.

=item *

fs_oc_maxDowntimesInARecord: Maximum downtimes seen by any fileserver.

=item *

fs_oc_sumOfDowntimes: Sum of all (completed) downtimes, in seconds.

=item *

fs_oc_shortestDowntime: Shortest downtime, in seconds.

=item *

fs_oc_longestDowntime: Longest downtime, in seconds.

=item *

fs_oc_down_0_10_min: Down time incidents: 0-10 minutes.

=item *

fs_oc_down_10_30_min: Down time incidents: 10-30 minutes.

=item *

fs_oc_down_half_1_hr: Down time incidents: 30-60 minutes.

=item *

fs_oc_down_1_2_hr: Down time incidents: 1-2 hours.

=item *

fs_oc_down_2_4_hr: Down time incidents: 2-4 hours.

=item *

fs_oc_down_4_8_hr: Down time incidents: 4-8 hours.

=item *

fs_oc_down_more_8_hr: Down time incidents: more than 8 hours.

=item *

fs_oc_downDst_0: Down time incidents: 0 times.

=item *

fs_oc_downDst_1: Down time incidents: 1 time.

=item *

fs_oc_downDst_2_5: Down time incidents: 2-5 times.

=item *

fs_oc_downDst_6_10: Down time incidents: 6-10 times.

=item *

fs_oc_downDst_10_50: Down time incidents: 10-50 times.

=item *

fs_oc_downDst_more_50: Down time incidents: more than 50 times.

=back

VL Server Up/Down Statistics in Same Cell Group (VL_upDown_SC_group)

=over

=item *

vl_sc_numTtlRecords: Number of vlserver records, active or inactive.

=item *

vl_sc_numUpRecords: Number of (active) vlserver records currently marked up.

=item *

vl_sc_numDownRecords: Number of (active) vlserver records currently marked down.

=item *

vl_sc_sumOfRecordAges: Sum of vlserver record lifetimes.

=item *

vl_sc_ageOfYoungestRecord: Age of youngest vlserver record.

=item *

vl_sc_ageOfOldestRecord: Age of oldest vlserver record.

=item *

vl_sc_numDowntimeIncidents: Number of (completed) downtime incidents.

=item *

vl_sc_numRecordsNeverDown: Number of vlserver records never marked down.

=item *

vl_sc_maxDowntimesInARecord: Maximum downtimes seen by any vlserver record.

=item *

vl_sc_sumOfDowntimes: Sum of all (completed) downtimes, in seconds.

=item *

vl_sc_shortestDowntime: Shortest downtime, in seconds.

=item *

vl_sc_longestDowntime: Longest downtime, in seconds.

=item *

vl_sc_down_0_10_min: Down time incidents: 0-10 minutes.

=item *

vl_sc_down_10_30_min: Down time incidents: 10-30 minutes.

=item *

vl_sc_down_half_1_hr: Down time incidents: 30-60 minutes.

=item *

vl_sc_down_1_2_hr: Down time incidents: 1-2 hours.

=item *

vl_sc_down_2_4_hr: Down time incidents: 2-4 hours.

=item *

vl_sc_down_4_8_hr: Down time incidents: 4-8 hours.

=item *

vl_sc_down_more_8_hr: Down time incidents: more than 8 hours.

=item *

vl_sc_downDst_0: Down time incidents: 0 times.

=item *

vl_sc_downDst_1: Down time incidents: 1 time.

=item *

vl_sc_downDst_2_5: Down time incidents: 2-5 times.

=item *

vl_sc_downDst_6_10: Down time incidents: 6-10 times.

=item *

vl_sc_downDst_10_50: Down time incidents: 10-50 times.

=item *

vl_sc_downDst_more_50: Down time incidents: more than 50 times.

=back

VL Server Up/Down Statistics in Other Cells Group (VL_upDown_DC_group)

=over

=item *

vl_oc_numTtlRecords: Number of vlserver records, active or inactive.

=item *

vl_oc_numUpRecords: Number of (active) vlserver records currently marked up.

=item *

vl_oc_numDownRecords: Number of (active) vlserver records currently marked down.

=item *

vl_oc_sumOfRecordAges: Sum of vlserver record lifetimes.

=item *

vl_oc_ageOfYoungestRecord: Age of youngest vlserver record.

=item *

vl_oc_ageOfOldestRecord: Age of oldest vlserver record.

=item *

vl_oc_numDowntimeIncidents: Number of (completed) downtime incidents.

=item *

vl_oc_numRecordsNeverDown: Number of vlserver records never marked down.

=item *

vl_oc_maxDowntimesInARecord: Maximum downtimes seen by any vlserver record.

=item *

vl_oc_sumOfDowntimes: Sum of all (completed) downtimes, in seconds.

=item *

vl_oc_shortestDowntime: Shortest downtime, in seconds.

=item *

vl_oc_longestDowntime: Longest downtime, in seconds.

=item *

vl_oc_down_0_10_min: Down time incidents: 0-10 minutes.

=item *

vl_oc_down_10_30_min: Down time incidents: 10-30 minutes.

=item *

vl_oc_down_half_1_hr: Down time incidents: 30-60 minutes.

=item *

vl_oc_down_1_2_hr: Down time incidents: 1-2 hours.

=item *

vl_oc_down_2_4_hr: Down time incidents: 2-4 hours.

=item *

vl_oc_down_4_8_hr: Down time incidents: 4-8 hours.

=item *

vl_oc_down_more_8_hr: Down time incidents: more than 8 hours.

=item *

vl_oc_downDst_0: Down time incidents: 0 times.

=item *

vl_oc_downDst_1: Down time incidents: 1 time.

=item *

vl_oc_downDst_2_5: Down time incidents: 2-5 times.

=item *

vl_oc_downDst_6_10: Down time incidents: 6-10 times.

=item *

vl_oc_downDst_10_50: Down time incidents: 10-50 times.

=item *

vl_oc_downDst_more_50: Down time incidents: more than 50 times.

=back

=head2 RPC Operation Measurements Section (RPCop_section)

File Server RPC Operation Timings Group (FS_RPCopTimes_group)

=over

=item *

FetchData_ops: Number of FetchData operations executed.

=item *

FetchData_ops_ok: Number of successful FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_sum: Sum of timings for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_min: Minimum execution time observed for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_max: Maximum execution time observed for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchACL_ops: Number of FetchACL operations executed.

=item *

FetchACL_ops_ok: Number of successful FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchACL_sum: Sum of timings for FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchACL_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchACL_min: Minimum execution time observed for FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchACL_max: Maximum execution time observed for FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_ops: Number of FetchStatus operations executed.

=item *

FetchStatus_ops_ok: Number of successful FetchStatus operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_sum: Sum of timings for FetchStatus operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for FetchStatus operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_min: Minimum execution time observed for FetchStatus operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_max: Maximum execution time observed for FetchStatus operations.

=item *

StoreData_ops: Number of StoreData operations executed.

=item *

StoreData_ops_ok: Number of successful StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_sum: Sum of timings for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_min: Minimum execution time observed for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_max: Maximum execution time observed for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreACL_ops: Number of StoreACL operations executed.

=item *

StoreACL_ops_ok: Number of successful StoreACL operation.

=item *

StoreACL_sum: Sum of timings for StoreACL operations.

=item *

StoreACL_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for StoreACL operations.

=item *

StoreACL_min: Minimum execution time observed for StoreACL operations.

=item *

StoreACL_max: Maximum execution time observed for StoreACL operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_ops: Number of StoreStatus operations executed.

=item *

StoreStatus_ops_ok: Number of successful StoreStatus operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_sum: Sum of timings for StoreStatus operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for StoreStatus operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_min: Minimum execution time observed for StoreStatus operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_max: Maximum execution time observed for StoreStatus operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_ops: Number of RemoveFile operations executed.

=item *

RemoveFile_ops_ok: Number of successful RemoveFile operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_sum: Sum of timings for RemoveFile operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for RemoveFile operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_min: Minimum execution time observed for RemoveFile operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_max: Maximum execution time observed for RemoveFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_ops: Number of CreateFile operations executed.

=item *

CreateFile_ops_ok: Number of successful CreateFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_sum: Sum of timings for CreateFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for CreateFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_min: Minimum execution time observed for CreateFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_max: Maximum execution time observed for CreateFile operations.

=item *

Rename_ops: Number of Rename operations executed.

=item *

Rename_ops_ok: Number of successful Rename operations.

=item *

Rename_sum: Sum of timings for Rename operations.

=item *

Rename_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for Rename operations.

=item *

Rename_min: Minimum execution time observed for Rename operations.

=item *

Rename_max: Maximum execution time observed for Rename operations.

=item *

Symlink_ops: Number of Symlink operations executed.

=item *

Symlink_ops_ok: Number of successful Symlink operations.

=item *

Symlink_sum: Sum of timings for Symlink operations.

=item *

Symlink_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for Symlink operations.

=item *

Symlink_min: Minimum execution time observed for Symlink operations.

=item *

Symlink_max: Maximum execution time observed for Symlink operations.

=item *

Link_ops: Number of Link operations executed.

=item *

Link_ops_ok: Number of successful Link operations.

=item *

Link_sum: Sum of timings for Link operations.

=item *

Link_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for Link operations.

=item *

Link_min: Minimum execution time observed for Link operations.

=item *

Link_max: Maximum execution time observed for Link operations.

=item *

MakeDir_ops: Number of MakeDir operations executed.

=item *

MakeDir_ops_ok: Number of successful MakeDir operations.

=item *

MakeDir_sum: Sum of timings for MakeDir operations.

=item *

MakeDir_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for MakeDir operations.

=item *

MakeDir_min: Minimum execution time observed for MakeDir operations.

=item *

MakeDir_max: Maximum execution time observed for MakeDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_ops: Number of RemoveDir operations executed.

=item *

RemoveDir_ops_ok: Number of successful RemoveDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_sum: Sum of timings for RemoveDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for RemoveDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_min: Minimum execution time observed for RemoveDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_max: Maximum execution time observed for RemoveDir operations.

=item *

SetLock_ops: Number of SetLock operations executed.

=item *

SetLock_ops_ok: Number of successful SetLock operations.

=item *

SetLock_sum: Sum of timings for SetLock operations.

=item *

SetLock_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for SetLock operations.

=item *

SetLock_min: Minimum execution time observed for SetLock operations.

=item *

SetLock_max: Maximum execution time observed for SetLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_ops: Number of ExtendLock operations executed.

=item *

ExtendLock_ops_ok: Number of successful ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_sum: Sum of timings for ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_min: Minimum execution time observed for ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_max: Maximum execution time observed for ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_ops: Number of ReleaseLock operations executed.

=item *

ReleaseLock_ops_ok: Number of successful ReleaseLock operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_sum: Sum of timings for ReleaseLock operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for StoreStatus operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_min: Minimum execution time observed for ReleaseLock operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_max: Maximum execution time observed for ReleaseLock operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_ops: Number of GetStatistics operations executed.

=item *

GetStatistics_ops_ok: Number of successful GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_sum: Sum of timings for GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_min: Minimum execution time observed for GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_max: Maximum execution time observed for GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_ops: Number of GiveUpCallbacks operations executed.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_ops_ok: Number of successful GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_sum: Sum of timings for GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_min: Minimum execution time observed for GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_max: Maximum execution time observed for GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_ops: Number of GetVolumeInfo operations executed.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_ops_ok: Number of successful GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_sum: Sum of timings for GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_min: Minimum execution time observed for GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_max: Maximum execution time observed for GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_ops: Number of GetVolumeStatus operations executed.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_ops_ok: Number of successful GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_sum: Sum of timings for GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_min: Minimum execution time observed for GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_max: Maximum execution time observed for GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_ops: Number of SetVolumeStatus operations executed.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_ops_ok: Number of successful SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_sum: Sum of timings for SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_min: Minimum execution time observed for SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_max: Maximum execution time observed for SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_ops: Number of GetRootVolume operations executed.

=item *

GetRootVolume_ops_ok: Number of successful GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_sum: Sum of timings for GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_min: Minimum execution time observed for GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_max: Maximum execution time observed for GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

CheckToken_ops: Number of CheckToken operations executed.

=item *

CheckToken_ops_ok: Number of successful CheckToken operations.

=item *

CheckToken_sum: Sum of timings for CheckToken operations.

=item *

CheckToken_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for CheckToken operations.

=item *

CheckToken_min: Minimum execution time observed for CheckToken operations.

=item *

CheckToken_max: Maximum execution time observed for CheckToken operations.

=item *

GetTime_ops: Number of GetTime operations executed.

=item *

GetTime_ops_ok: Number of successful GetTime operations.

=item *

GetTime_sum: Sum of timings for GetTime operations.

=item *

GetTime_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GetTime operations.

=item *

GetTime_min: Minimum execution time observed for GetTime operations.

=item *

GetTime_max: Maximum execution time observed for GetTime operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_ops: Number of NGetVolumeInfo operations executed.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_ops_ok: Number of successful NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_sum: Sum of timings for NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_min: Minimum execution time observed for NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_max: Maximum execution time observed for NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_ops: Number of BulkStatus operations executed.

=item *

BulkStatus_ops_ok: Number of successful BulkStatus operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_sum: Sum of timings for BulkStatus operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for BulkStatus operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_min: Minimum execution time observed for BulkStatus operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_max: Maximum execution time observed for BulkStatus operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_ops: Number of XStatsVersion operations executed.

=item *

XStatsVersion_ops_ok: Number of successful XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_sum: Sum of timings for XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_min: Minimum execution time observed for XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_max: Maximum execution time observed for XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

GetXStats_ops: Number of GetXStats operations executed.

=item *

GetXStats_ops_ok: Number of successful GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_sum: Sum of timings for GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXstats_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_min: Minimum execution time observed for GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_max: Maximum execution time observed for GetXStats operations.

=back

File Server RPC Operation Errors Group (FS_RPCopErrors_group)

=over

=item *

FetchData_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_net_err: Number of network errors during FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_prot_err_err: Number of protection violations during FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions during FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchACL_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchACL_net_err: Number of network errors during FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchACL_prot_err: Number of protection violations during FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchACL_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchACL_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchACL_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during FetchStatus operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_net_err: Number of network errors during FetchStatus operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_prot_err: Number of protection violations during FetchStatus operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during FetchStatus operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during FetchStatus operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during FetchStatus operations.

=item *

StoreData_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_net_err: Number of network errors during StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_prot_err: Number of protection violations during StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreACL_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during StoreACL operations.

=item *

StoreACL_net_err: Number of network errors during StoreACL operations.

=item *

StoreACL_prot_err: Number of protection violations during StoreACL operations.

=item *

StoreACL_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during StoreACL operations.

=item *

StoreACL_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during StoreACL operations.

=item *

StoreACL_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during StoreACL operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during StoreStatus operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_net_err: Number of network errors during StoreStatus operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_prot_err: Number of protection violations during StoreStatus operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during StoreStatus operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during StoreStatus operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during StoreStatus operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during RemoveFile operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_net_err: Number of network errors during RemoveFile operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_prot_err: Number of protection violations during RemoveFile operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during RemoveFile operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during RemoveFile operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during RemoveFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during CreateFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_net_err: Number of network errors during CreateFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_prot_err: Number of protection violations during CreateFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during CreateFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during CreateFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during CreateFile operations.

=item *

Rename_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during Rename operations.

=item *

Rename_net_err: Number of network errors during Rename operations.

=item *

Rename_prot_err: Number of protection violations during Rename operations.

=item *

Rename_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during Rename operations.

=item *

Rename_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during Rename operations.

=item *

Rename_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during Rename operations.

=item *

Symlink_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during Symlink operations.

=item *

Symlink_net_err: Number of network errors during Symlink operations.

=item *

Symlink_prot_err: Number of protection violations during Symlink operations.

=item *

Symlink_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during Symlink operations.

=item *

Symlink_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during Symlink operations.

=item *

Symlink_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during Symlink operations.

=item *

Link_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during Link operations.

=item *

Link_net_err: Number of network errors during Link operations.

=item *

Link_prot_err: Number of protection violations during Link operations.

=item *

Link_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during Link operations.

=item *

Link_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during Link operations.

=item *

Link_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during Link operations.

=item *

MakeDir_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during MakeDir operations.

=item *

MakeDir_net_err: Number of network errors during MakeDir operations.

=item *

MakeDir_prot_err: Number of protection violations during MakeDir operations.

=item *

MakeDir_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during MakeDir operations.

=item *

MakeDir_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during MakeDir operations.

=item *

MakeDir_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during MakeDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during RemoveDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_net_err: Number of network errors during RemoveDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_prot_err: Number of protection violations during RemoveDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during RemoveDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during RemoveDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during RemoveDir operations.

=item *

SetLock_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during SetLock operations.

=item *

SetLock_net_err: Number of network errors during SetLock operations.

=item *

SetLock_prot_err: Number of protection violations during SetLock operations.

=item *

SetLock_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during SetLock operations.

=item *

SetLock_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during SetLock operations.

=item *

SetLock_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during SetLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_net_err: Number of network errors during ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_prot_err: Number of protection violations during ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during ReleaseLock operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_net_err: Number of network errors during ReleaseLock operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_prot_err: Number of protection violations during ReleaseLock operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during ReleaseLock operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during ReleaseLock operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during ReleaseLock operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_net_err: Number of network errors during GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_prot_err: Number of protection violations during GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_net_err: Number of network errors during GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_prot_err: Number of protection violations during GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_net_err: Number of network errors during GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_prot_err: Number of protection violations during GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_net_err: Number of network errors during GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_prot_err: Number of protection violations during GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_srv_err : Number of server-down errors during SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_net_err: Number of network errors during SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_prot_err: Number of protection violations during SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_net_err: Number of network errors during GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_prot_err: Number of protection violations during GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

CheckToken_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during CheckToken operations.

=item *

CheckToken_net_err: Number of network errors during CheckToken operations.

=item *

CheckToken_prot_err: Number of protection violations during CheckToken operations.

=item *

CheckToken_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during CheckToken operations.

=item *

CheckToken_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during CheckToken operations.

=item *

CheckToken_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during CheckToken operations.

=item *

GetTime_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during GetTime operations.

=item *

GetTime_net_err: Number of network errors during GetTime operations.

=item *

GetTime_prot_err: Number of protection violations during GetTime operations.

=item *

GetTime_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during GetTime operations.

=item *

GetTime_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during GetTime operations.

=item *

GetTime_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during GetTime operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_net_err: Number of network errors during NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_prot_err: Number of protection violations during NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during BulkStatus operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_net_err: Number of network errors during BulkStatus operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_prot_err: Number of protection violations during BulkStatus operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during BulkStatus operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during BulkStatus operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during BulkStatus operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_net_err: Number of network errors during XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_prot_err: Number of protection violations during XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

GetXStats_srv_err: Number of server-down errors during GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_net_err: Number of network errors during GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_prot_err: Number of protection violations during GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_vol_err: Number of volume related errors during GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_busy_err: Number of volume busy conditions encountered during GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_other_err: Number of miscellaneous other errors during GetXStats operations.

=back

File Server RPC Transfer Timings Group (FS_RPCopBytes_group)

=over

=item *

FetchData_xfers: Number of FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_ok: Number of successful FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_sum: Sum of timing values for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_min: Minimum transfer time observed for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_max: Maximum transfer time observed for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bytes_sum: Sum of bytes transferred for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bytes_min: Minimum byte transfer observed for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bytes_max: Maximum byte transfer observed for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket0: Tally in bucket0 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket1: Tally in bucket1 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket2: Tally in bucket2 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket3: Tally in bucket3 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket4: Tally in bucket4 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket5: Tally in bucket5 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket6: Tally in bucket6 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket7: Tally in bucket7 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket8: Tally in bucket8 for FetchData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers: Number of StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_ok: Number of successful StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_sum: Sum of timing values for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_min: Minimum transfer time observed for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_max: Maximum transfer time observed for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bytes_sum: Sum of bytes transferred for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bytes_min: Minimum byte transfer observed for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bytes_max: Maximum byte transfer observed for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket0: Tally in bucket0 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket1: Tally in bucket1 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket2: Tally in bucket2 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket3: Tally in bucket3 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket4: Tally in bucket4 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket5: Tally in bucket5 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket6: Tally in bucket6 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket7: Tally in bucket7 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket8: Tally in bucket8 for StoreData operations.

=back

Cache Manager RPC Operation Timings Group (CM_RPCopTimes_group)

=over

=item *

CallBack_ops: Number of CallBack operations executed.

=item *

CallBack_ops_ok: Number of successful CallBack operations.

=item *

CallBack_ops_sum: Sum of timings for CallBack operations.

=item *

CallBack_ops_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for CallBack operations.

=item *

CallBack_ops_min: Minimum execution time observed for CallBack operations.

=item *

CallBack_ops_max: Maximum execution time observed for CallBack operations.

=item *

InitCallBackState_ops: Number of InitCallBackState operations executed.

=item *

InitCallBackState_ops_ok: Number of successful InitCallBackState operations.

=item *

InitCallBackState_ops_sum: Sum of timings for InitCallBackState operations.

=item *

InitCallBackState_ops_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for InitCallBackState operations.

=item *

InitCallBackState_ops_min: Minimum execution time observed for InitCallBackState operations.

=item *

InitCallBackState_ops_max: Maximum execution time observed for InitCallBackState operations.

=item *

Probe_ops: Number of Probe operations executed.

=item *

Probe_ops_ok: Number of successful Probe operations.

=item *

Probe_ops_sum: Sum of timings for Probe operations.

=item *

Probe_ops_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for Probe operations.

=item *

Probe_ops_min: Minimum execution time observed for Probe operations.

=item *

Probe_ops_max: Maximum execution time observed for Probe operations.

=item *

GetLock_ops: Number of GetLock operations executed.

=item *

GetLock_ops_ok: Number of successful GetLock operations.

=item *

GetLock_ops_sum: Sum of timings for GetLock operations.

=item *

GetLock_ops_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GetLock operations.

=item *

GetLock_ops_min: Minimum execution time observed for GetLock operations.

=item *

GetLock_ops_max: Maximum execution time observed for GetLock operations.

=item *

GetCE_ops: Number of GetCE operations executed.

=item *

GetCE_ops_ok: Number of successful GetCE operations.

=item *

GetCE_ops_sum: Sum of timings for GetCE operations.

=item *

GetCE_ops_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GetCE operations.

=item *

GetCE_ops_min: Minimum execution time observed for GetCE operations.

=item *

GetCE_ops_max: Maximum execution time observed for GetCE operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_CM_ops: Number of XStatsVersion operations executed.

=item *

XStatsVersion_CM_ops_ok: Number of successful XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_CM_ops_sum: Sum of timings for XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_CM_ops_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_CM_ops_min: Minimum execution time observed for XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_CM_ops_max: Maximum execution time observed for XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

GetXStats_CM_ops: Number of GetXStats operations executed.

=item *

GetXStats_CM_ops_ok: Number of successful GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_CM_ops_sum: Sum of timings for GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_CM_ops_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_CM_ops_min: Minimum execution time observed for GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_CM_ops_max: Maximum execution time observed for GetXStats operations.

=back

=head2 Authentication and Replicated File Access Section (Auth_Access_section)

Authentication Information for Cache Manager Group (Auth_Stats_group)

=over

=item *

curr_PAGs: Current number of PAGs.

=item *

curr_Records: Current number of records in table.

=item *

curr_AuthRecords: Current number of of authenticated records (with valid ticket).

=item *

curr_UnauthRecords: Current number of of unauthenticated records (without any ticket at all).

=item *

curr_MaxRecordsInPAG: Maximum records for a single PAG.

=item *

curr_LongestChain: Length of longest current hash chain.

=item *

PAGCreations: Number of PAG creations.

=item *

TicketUpdates: Number of ticket additions/refreshes.

=item *

HWM_PAGS: High water mark - number of PAGs.

=item *

HWM_Records: High water mark - number of records.

=item *

HWM_MaxRecordsInPAG: High water mark - maximum records for a single PAG.

=item *

HWM_LongestChain: High water mark - longest hash chain.

=back

Unreplicated File Access Group (Access_Stats_group)

=over

=item *

unreplicatedRefs: Number of references to unreplicated data.

=item *

replicatedRefs: Number of references to replicated data.

=item *

numReplicasAccessed: Number of replicas accessed.

=item *

maxReplicasPerRef: Maximum number of replicas accessed per reference.

=item *

refFirstReplicaOK: Number of references satisfied by 1st replica.

=back

=head1 The File Server Statistics


File Server statistics are classified into the following sections and groups:

=over

=item *

PerfStats_section: Performance Statistics Section.

=over

=item *

VnodeCache_group: Vnode Cache Group.

=item *

Directory_group: Directory Package Group.

=item *

Rx_group: Rx Group.

=item *

HostModule_group: Host Module Fields Group.

=item *

misc_group: Miscellaneous Variables Group.

=back

=item *

RPCop_section: RPC Operations Section.

=over

=item *

RPCopTimes_group: Individual RPC Operation Timings.

=item *

RPCopBytes_group: Byte Information for Certain RPC Operations.

=back

=back

All File Server variables categorized under the above sections and groups names are listed below.

=head2 Performance Statistics Section (PerfStats_section)

Vnode Cache Group (VnodeCache_group)

=over

=item *

vcache_L_Entries: Number of entries in LARGE vnode cache.

=item *

vcache_L_Allocs: Number of allocs (large).

=item *

vcache_L_Gets: Number of gets (large).

=item *

vcache_L_Reads: Number of reads (large).

=item *

vcache_L_Writes: Number of writes (large).

=item *

vcache_S_Entries: Number of entries in SMALL vnode cache.

=item *

vcache_S_Allocs: Number of allocs (small).

=item *

vcache_S_Gets: Number of gets (small).

=item *

vcache_S_Reads: Number of reads (small).

=item *

vcache_S_Writes: Number of writes (small).

=item *

vcache_H_Entries: Number of entries in HEADER vnode cache.

=item *

vcache_H_Gets: Number of gets (header)

=item *

vcache_H_Replacements: Number of replacements (header)

=back

Directory Package Group (Directory_group)

=over

=item *

dir_Buffers: Number of buffers in use.

=item *

dir_Calls: Number of read calls made.

=item *

dir_IOs: I/O operations performed.

=back

Rx Group (Rx_group)

=over

=item *

rx_packetRequests: Packet allocation requests.

=item *

rx_noPackets_RcvClass: Failed packet requests (receive class).

=item *

rx_noPackets_SendClass: Failed packet requests (send class).

=item *

rx_noPackets_SpecialClass: Failed packet requests (special class).

=item *

rx_socketGreedy: Did SO_GREEDY succeed?

=item *

rx_bogusPacketOnRead: Short packets received.

=item *

rx_bogusHost: Host address from bogus packets.

=item *

rx_noPacketOnRead: Read packets with no packet there.

=item *

rx_noPacketBuffersOnRead: Packets dropped due to buffer shortage.

=item *

rx_selects: Selects waiting on packet or timeout.

=item *

rx_sendSelects: Selects forced upon sends.

=item *

rx_packetsRead_RcvClass: Packets read (receive class).

=item *

rx_packetsRead_SendClass: Packets read (send class).

=item *

rx_packetsRead_SpecialClass: Packets read (special class).

=item *

rx_dataPacketsRead: Unique data packets read off wire.

=item *

rx_ackPacketsRead: ACK packets read.

=item *

rx_dupPacketsRead: Duplicate data packets read.

=item *

rx_spuriousPacketsRead: Inappropriate packets read.

=item *

rx_packetsSent_RcvClass: Packets sent (receive class).

=item *

rx_packetsSent_SendClass: Packets sent (send class).

=item *

rx_packetsSent_SpecialClass: Packets sent (special class).

=item *

rx_ackPacketsSent: ACK packets sent.

=item *

rx_pingPacketsSent: Ping packets sent.

=item *

rx_abortPacketsSent: Abort packets sent.

=item *

rx_busyPacketsSent: Busy packets sent.

=item *

rx_dataPacketsSent: Unique data packets sent.

=item *

rx_dataPacketsReSent: Retransmissions sent.

=item *

rx_dataPacketsPushed: Retransmissions pushed by NACK.

=item *

rx_ignoreAckedPacket: Packets with ACKed flag on rxi_Start.

=item *

rx_totalRtt_Sec and rx_totalRtt_Usec: Total round trip time (in seconds and milliseconds).

=item *

rx_minRtt_Sec and rx_minRtt_Usec: Minimum round trip time (in seconds and milliseconds).

=item *

rx_maxRtt_Sec and rx_maxRtt_Usec: Maximum round trip time (in seconds and milliseconds).

=item *

rx_nRttSamples: Round trip samples.

=item *

rx_nServerConns: Total server connections.

=item *

rx_nClientConns: Total client connections.

=item *

rx_nPeerStructs: Total peer structures.

=item *

rx_nCallStructs: Total call structures.

=item *

rx_nFreeCallStructs: Total free call structures.

=back

Host Module Fields Group (HostModule_group)

=over

=item *

host_NumHostEntries: Number of host entries.

=item *

host_HostBlocks: Blocks in use for hosts.

=item *

host_NonDeletedHosts: Non-deleted hosts.

=item *

host_HostsInSameNetOrSubnet: Hosts in same subnet as server.

=item *

host_HostsInDiffSubnet: Hosts in different subnet than server.

=item *

host_HostsInDiffNetwork: Hosts in different network than server.

=item *

host_NumClients: Number of client entries.

=item *

host_ClientBlocks: Blocks in use for clients.

=back

Miscellaneous Variables Group (misc_group)

=over

=item *

numPerfCalls: Number of performance calls received.

=back

=head2 RPC Operations Section (RPCop_section)

Individual RPC Operation Timings Group (RPCopTimes_group)

=over

=item *

epoch: Time when data collection began.

=item *

FetchData_ops: Number of FetchData operations executed.

=item *

FetchData_ops_ok: Number of successful FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_sum: Sum of timings for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_min: Minimum execution time observed for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_max: Maximum execution time observed for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchACL_ops: Number of FetchACL operations executed.

=item *

FetchACL_ops_ok: Number of successful FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchACL_sum: Sum of timings for FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchACL_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchACL_min: Minimum execution time observed for FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchACL_max: Maximum execution time observed for FetchACL operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_ops: Number of FetchStatus operations executed.

=item *

FetchStatus_ops_ok: Number of successful FetchStatus operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_sum: Sum of timings for FetchStatus operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for FetchStatus operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_min: Minimum execution time observed for FetchStatus operations.

=item *

FetchStatus_max: Maximum execution time observed for FetchStatus operations.

=item *

StoreData_ops: Number of StoreData operations executed.

=item *

StoreData_ops_ok: Number of successful StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_sum: Sum of timings for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_min: Minimum execution time observed for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_max: Maximum execution time observed for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreACL_ops: Number of StoreACL operations executed.

=item *

StoreACL_ops_ok: Number of successful StoreACL operations.

=item *

StoreACL_sum: Sum of timings for StoreACL operations.

=item *

StoreACL_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for StoreACL operations.

=item *

StoreACL_min: Minimum execution time observed for StoreACL operations.

=item *

StoreACL_max: Maximum execution time observed for StoreACL operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_ops: Number of StoreStatus operations executed.

=item *

StoreStatus_ops_ok: Number of successful StoreStatus operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_sum: Sum of timings for StoreStatus operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for StoreStatus operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_min: Minimum execution time observed for StoreStatus operations.

=item *

StoreStatus_max: Maximum execution time observed for StoreStatus operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_ops: Number of RemoveFile operations executed.

=item *

RemoveFile_ops_ok: Number of successful RemoveFile operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_sum: Sum of timings for RemoveFile operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for RemoveFile operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_min: Minimum execution time observed for RemoveFile operations.

=item *

RemoveFile_max: Maximum execution time observed for RemoveFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_ops: Number of CreateFile operations executed.

=item *

CreateFile_ops_ok: Number of successful CreateFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_sum: Sum of timings for CreateFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for CreateFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_min: Minimum execution time observed for CreateFile operations.

=item *

CreateFile_max: Maximum execution time observed for CreateFile operations.

=item *

Rename_ops: Number of Rename operations executed.

=item *

Rename_ops_ok: Number of successful Rename operations.

=item *

Rename_sum: Sum of timings for Rename operations.

=item *

Rename_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for Rename operations.

=item *

Rename_min: Minimum execution time observed for Rename operations.

=item *

Rename_max: Maximum execution time observed for Rename operations.

=item *

Symlink_ops: Number of Symlink operations executed.

=item *

Symlink_ops_ok: Number of successful Symlink operations.

=item *

Symlink_sum: Sum of timings for Symlink operations.

=item *

Symlink_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for Symlink operations.

=item *

Symlink_min: Minimum execution time observed for Symlink operations.

=item *

Symlink_max: Maximum execution time observed for Symlink operations.

=item *

Link_ops: Number of Link operations executed.

=item *

Link_ops_ok: Number of successful Link operations.

=item *

Link_sum: Sum of timings for Link operations.

=item *

Link_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for Link operations.

=item *

Link_min: Minimum execution time observed for Link operations.

=item *

Link_max: Maximum execution time observed for Link operations.

=item *

MakeDir_ops: Number of MakeDir operations executed.

=item *

MakeDir_ops_ok: Number of successful MakeDir operations.

=item *

MakeDir_sum: Sum of timings for MakeDir operations.

=item *

MakeDir_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for MakeDir operations.

=item *

MakeDir_min: Minimum execution time observed for MakeDir operations.

=item *

MakeDir_max: Maximum execution time observed for MakeDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_ops: Number of RemoveDir operations executed.

=item *

RemoveDir_ops_ok: Number of successful RemoveDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_sum: Sum of timings for RemoveDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for RemoveDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_min: Minimum execution time observed for RemoveDir operations.

=item *

RemoveDir_max: Maximum execution time observed for RemoveDir operations.

=item *

SetLock_ops: Number of SetLock operations executed.

=item *

SetLock_ops_ok: Number of successful SetLock operations.

=item *

SetLock_sum: Sum of timings for SetLock operations.

=item *

SetLock_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for SetLock operations.

=item *

SetLock_min: Minimum execution time observed for SetLock operations.

=item *

SetLock_max: Maximum execution time observed for SetLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_ops: Number of ExtendLock operations executed.

=item *

ExtendLock_ops_ok: Number of successful ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_sum: Sum of timings for ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_min: Minimum execution time observed for ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ExtendLock_max: Maximum execution time observed for ExtendLock operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_ops: Number of ReleaseLock operations executed.

=item *

ReleaseLock_ops_ok: Number of successful ReleaseLock operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_sum: Sum of timings for ReleaseLock operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for ReleaseLock operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_min: Minimum execution time observed for ReleaseLock operations.

=item *

ReleaseLock_max: Maximum execution time observed for ReleaseLock operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_ops: Number of GetStatistics operations executed.

=item *

GetStatistics_ops_ok: Number of successful GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_sum: Sum of timings for GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_min: Minimum execution time observed for GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GetStatistics_max: Maximum execution time observed for GetStatistics operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_ops: Number of GiveUpCallbacks operations executed.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_ops_ok: Number of successful GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_sum: Sum of timings for GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_min: Minimum execution time observed for GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GiveUpCallbacks_max: Maximum execution time observed for GiveUpCallbacks operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_ops: Number of GetVolumeInfo operations executed.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_ops_ok: Number of successful GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_sum: Sum of timings for GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_min: Minimum execution time observed for GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeInfo_max: Maximum execution time observed for GetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_ops: Number of GetVolumeStatus operations executed.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_ops_ok: Number of successful GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_sum: Sum of timings for GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_min: Minimum execution time observed for GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetVolumeStatus_max: Maximum execution time observed for GetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_ops: Number of SetVolumeStatus operations executed.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_ops_ok: Number of successful SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_sum: Sum of timings for SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_min: Minimum execution time observed for SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

SetVolumeStatus_max: Maximum execution time observed for SetVolumeStatus operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_ops: Number of GetRootVolume operations executed.

=item *

GetRootVolume_ops_ok: Number of successful GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_sum: Sum of timings for GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_min: Minimum execution time observed for GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

GetRootVolume_max: Maximum execution time observed for GetRootVolume operations.

=item *

CheckToken_ops: Number of CheckToken operations executed.

=item *

CheckToken_ops_ok: Number of successful CheckToken operations.

=item *

CheckToken_sum: Sum of timings for CheckToken operations.

=item *

CheckToken_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for CheckToken operations.

=item *

CheckToken_min: Minimum execution time observed for CheckToken operations.

=item *

CheckToken_max: Maximum execution time observed for CheckToken operations.

=item *

GetTime_ops: Number of GetTime operations executed.

=item *

GetTime_ops_ok: Number of successful GetTime operations.

=item *

GetTime_sum: Sum of timings for GetTime operations.

=item *

GetTime_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GetTime operations.

=item *

GetTime_min: Minimum execution time observed for GetTime operations.

=item *

GetTime_max: Maximum execution time observed for GetTime operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_ops: Number of NGetVolumeInfo operations executed.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_ops_ok: Number of successful NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_sum: Sum of timings for NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_min: Minimum execution time observed for NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

NGetVolumeInfo_max: Maximum execution time observed for NGetVolumeInfo operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_ops: Number of BulkStatus operations executed.

=item *

BulkStatus_ops_ok: Number of successful BulkStatus operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_sum: Sum of timings for BulkStatus operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for BulkStatus operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_min: Minimum execution time observed for BulkStatus operations.

=item *

BulkStatus_max: Maximum execution time observed for BulkStatus operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_ops: Number of XStatsVersion operations executed.

=item *

XStatsVersion_ops_ok: Number of successful XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_sum: Sum of timings for XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_min: Minimum execution time observed for XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

XStatsVersion_max: Maximum execution time observed for XStatsVersion operations.

=item *

GetXStats_ops: Number of GetXStats operations executed.

=item *

GetXStats_ops_ok: Number of successful GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_sum: Sum of timings for GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_min: Minimum execution time observed for GetXStats operations.

=item *

GetXStats_max: Maximum execution time observed for GetXStats operations.

=back

Byte Information for Certain RPC Operations Group (RPCopBytes_group)

=over

=item *

FetchData_xfers: Number of FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_ok: Number of successful FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_sum: Sum of timing values for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_min: Minimum transfer time observed for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_max: Maximum transfer time observed for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bytes_sum: Sum of bytes transferred for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bytes_min: Minimum byte transfer observed for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bytes_max: Maximum byte transfer observed for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket0: Tally in bucket0 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket1: Tally in bucket1 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket2: Tally in bucket2 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket3: Tally in bucket3 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket4: Tally in bucket4 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket5: Tally in bucket5 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket6: Tally in bucket6 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket7: Tally in bucket7 for FetchData operations.

=item *

FetchData_xfers_bucket8: Tally in bucket8 for FetchData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers: Number of StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_ok: Number of successful StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_sum: Sum of timing values for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_sqr: Sum of squares of sample timings for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_min: Minimum transfer time observed for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_max: Maximum transfer time observed for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bytes_sum: Sum of bytes transferred for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bytes_min: Minimum byte transfer observed for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bytes_max: Maximum byte transfer observed for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket0: Tally in bucket0 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket1: Tally in bucket1 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket2: Tally in bucket2 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket3: Tally in bucket3 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket4: Tally in bucket4 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket5: Tally in bucket5 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket6: Tally in bucket6 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket7: Tally in bucket7 for StoreData operations.

=item *

StoreData_xfers_bucket8: Tally in bucket8 for StoreData operations.

=back


=head1 AUTHORS

The code and documentation for this class were contributed by Stanford
Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University. This
documentation was written by

=over

=item Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net> and

=item Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND DISCLAIMER

 Copyright 2004 Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu> and
                Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>
 All rights reserved.

 Most of the explanations in this document are taken from the original
 AFS documentation.

 AFS-3 Programmer's Reference:
 Volume Server/Volume Location Server Interface
 Edward R. Zayas
 (c) 1991 Transarc Corporation.
 All rights reserved.

 IBM AFS Administration Reference
 (c) IBM Corporation 2000.
 All rights reserved.

 This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
 under the same terms as Perl itself.
