#------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# afsperldebug.pod
#
# Copyright © 2004-2006 Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu> and
#                  Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>
#
# $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/07/05 22:25:10 $ $Author: alfw $
#
# This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

B<AFS::Monitor> - Perl interface to AFS monitoring and debugging tools

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=over

=item B<afsmonitor>

Gathers statistics about specified File Server and Cache Manager operations.
There are 271 available File Server statistics and 571 available Cache Manager
statistics, listed in L<afsmon_stats(1)>.
See L<afsmonitor(1)>

=item B<cmdebug>

Reports status of cache manager and cache entries on a particular AFS
client machine. See L<cmdebug(1)>

=item B<rxdebug>

Provides debugging trace of Rx activity for a specified server or client
machine. See L<rxdebug(1)>

=item B<scout>

Gathers statistics from the File Server processes running on the specified
machines. See L<scout(1)>

=item B<udebug>

Reports the status of the Ubik process associated with a database server
process. See L<udebug(1)>

=item B<xstat_cm_test>

Gathers the specified data collections associated with the specified Cache
Manager. See L<xstat_cm_test(1)>

=item B<xstat_fs_test>

Gathers the specified data collections associated with the specified File
Server process. See L<xstat_fs_test(1)>

=back

=head1 COMPATIBILITY

The configurations that this package has been tested on are listed below:

  OS              @sys            Perl            	OpenAFS
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  FC5             amd64_linux26   v5.8.8			1.4.2-beta1
  RHEL4-64        amd64_linux26   v5.8.5			1.4.1
  RHEL4-32        no machine
  RHEL3-32        i386linux24     v5.8.0, v5.8.8, v5.6.0	1.4.1, 1.2.10
  RHEL3-64        no machine
  SLES9           ia64_linux26    v5.8.3			1.4.1

  Solaris 5.8     sun4x_58        v5.8.8, v5.6.0, 5.005_03	1.4.1, 1.2.10
  Solaris 5.9     sun4x_59        v5.8.8, v5.6.0		1.4.1, 1.2.10
  Solaris 5.10    sun4x_510       v5.8.8, v5.6.0		1.4.1, 1.2.10

  Mac OS X 10.3   ppc_darwin_70   v5.8.1-RC3			1.4.1
  Mac OS x 10.4   ppc_darwin_80   v5.8.6			1.4.1


Perl 5.6.0 or newer. No problems were found with threaded Perl.
AFS system libraries and header files from B<OpenAFS 1.2.x> or newer.
It is not know whether version 0.3.0 of this module works with
B<IBM/Transarc AFS> because I don't have this version available any more.


=head1 PREREQUISITES

This package does not depend on any other Perl modules.

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

This package depends on the corresponding OpenAFS libraries.
These underlying libraries still don't work properly on or with
64bit Linux systems. The problem manifests itself in statistic
values beeing zero instead of the real value.
This problem will go away once the OpenAFS libraries are fixed.

=head1 AUTHORS

The code and documentation for this class were contributed by Stanford
Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.
This documentation was written by

=over

=item Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net> and

=item Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND DISCLAIMER

 Copyright 2004-2006
		Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu> and
                Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>
 All rights reserved.

 Most of the explanations in this document are taken from the original
 AFS documentation.

 AFS-3 Programmer's Reference:
 Volume Server/Volume Location Server Interface
 Edward R. Zayas
 (c) 1991 Transarc Corporation.
 All rights reserved.

 IBM AFS Administration Reference
 (c) IBM Corporation 2000.
 All rights reserved.

 This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
 under the same terms as Perl itself.
