=head1 NAME

CGI::Bus::Base - Base class for CGI::Bus subobjects


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use CGI::Bus::Base;
 use vars qw(@ISA);
 @ISA =qw(CGI::Bus::Base);


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides common to all L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> subobject classes
properties and functionality.


=head1 SLOTS

=over


=item 'CGI::Bus'

Contains parent application object reference.
Is cached by C<parent>.


=back

=head1 METHODS


=over

=item AUTOLOAD

Delegate method call given to C<parent> object.
All parent object's methods may be used as a subobject methods.


=item cgi () -> L<CGI|CGI> L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> subobject

L<CGI|CGI> subobject of parent L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> object,
optimising C<AUTOLOAD>ing


=item class () -> class name

Class name of the object.


=item classt () -> subclass name

The last part of the class name of the object.


=item DESTROY

Deletes self C<'CGI::Bus'> slot.


=item htmlescape ( args ) -> escaped

Parent L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> object's C<htmlescape> call,
optimising C<AUTOLOAD>ing


=item initialize (?-slot => value)

Initialize new object slots, used within C<new>.


=item new -> new object

=item new ( -slot => value...) -> new object

Create new object.
See also C<set>


=item param (?args) -> L<CGI|CGI> L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> subobject C<param> call

L<CGI|CGI> subobject of parent L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> object C<param> call,
optimising C<AUTOLOAD>ing


=item parent () -> superobject

Returns parent L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> application object.
It is cached in C<'CGI::Bus'> slot and calculated if needed.


=item print (?args) -> L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> C<print> call

Parent L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> object C<print> call,
optimising C<AUTOLOAD>ing


=item qparam (?args) -> L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> C<qparam> call

Parent L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> object C<qparam> call,
optimising C<AUTOLOAD>ing


=item set (-slot) -> value

=item set (-slot=>value,...) -> object

Retrieve or set object slots.
See also C<new>.


=item urlescape ( args ) -> escaped

Parent L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> object's C<urlescape> call,
optimising C<AUTOLOAD>ing


=head1 VERSION

=over

=head2 15/10/2001 - 08/11/2001 - 30/01/2002

Implemented and Documented.
25/01/2002 C<cgi>, C<param>, C<print>, C<qparam> methods added to
optimise C<AUTOLOAD>ing;
30/01/2002 C<classt>, C<htmlescape>, C<urlescape> added also.

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Andrew V Makarow <makarow at mail.com>

=cut
