=head1 NAME

CGI::Bus::file - file object


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use CGI::Bus;
 $s =CGI::Bus->new();
 $s->file(-name=>'t.txt', -mode=>'rwc')->store('aa','bb');

=head1 DESCRIPTION


This module is a file object encapsulating L<IO::File|IO/File> object.
See L<CGI::Bus::Base|CGI/Bus/Base> for inherited slots and methods.


=head1 SLOTS

=over


=item -iofile

L<IO::File|IO/File> object


=item -lock

Current file lock, 0 or undef is used when unlocked


=item -mode

File access mode, default is 'r'


=item -name

File name


=item -perm

File permissions when to be created, default is 0666



=back

=head1 METHODS


=over


=item AUTOLOAD

'O_XXX' L<Fcntl|Fcntl> call or 
'LOCK_XX' L<Fcntl|Fcntl> call
or L<IO::File|IO/File> method call


=item close -> self object

Close file opened


=item dump ( data ) -> self object

=item dump -> data dump loaded

=item dumpload -> data dump loaded

=item dumpstore ( data ) -> self object

Store and load data structure to or from file using 
C<store>, C<load>, 
L<CGI::Bus::dumpout|CGI/Bus>, L<CGI::Bus::dumpin|CGI/Bus>.
C<seek>s to the beginning of the file before read or write.


=item iofile ( ?file open args ) -> IO:File object

Returns internal L<IO::File|IO/File> object.
Create it if not exists or if arguments present to open file.
See C<open> for arguments.


=item load ( ?-asb, ?sub ) -> data loaded

Reads file into memory as array or list ('-a'), text scalar ('-s'),
binary scalar ('-b'). 
Default, '-a' or '-b', is determined with L<wantarray|perlfunc/wantarray>.
Locks file with 'LOCK_SH' if there is no shared or exclusive lock,
lock remains after operation.
C<seek>s to the beginning of the file before read.

If sub is defined, it is evaluated for each row read into local $_, 
and with '-a' option results of each evaluation are returned as a list, 
true is returned otherwise.


=item lock ( lock mode ) -> self object

=item lock -> current lock mode

Locks or unlocks file, or returns current lock.
Lock mode may be L<Fcntl|Fcntl> 'LOCK_SH', 'LOCK_EX', 'LOCK_UN',
or strings 'sh', 'ex', 'un' or '0'.
0 means unlocked file.


=item open ( filename, ?mode, ?perm ) -> self object

Open file.
Default mode is 'r', 
mode may be L<Fcntl|Fcntl> constants like 'O_RDONLY',
'fopen' mode signs 'r', 'w', 'a', 'r+', 'a+',
mode strings 'rw' for O_RDWR and 'rwc' for O_RDWR|O_CREAT.
Default permission is 0666.


=item seek ( position, ?whence ) -> self object

Filehandle positioning.
Default positioning method is 0 - 'SEEK_SET'.


=item store ( ?-b, data to store ) -> self object

Writes given data into file. 
Locks file with 'LOCK_EX' if there is no exclusive lock,
lock remains after operation.
Does not C<seek>s, call C<seek> before C<store> call.
Option '-b' chooses binary mode and
binary write. 
Without '-b', each element of data list is printed with trailing "\n" added.


=back


=head1 VERSION

=over

=head2 22/12/2001 - 23/12/2001

Implemented and Documented.


=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Andrew V Makarow <makarow at mail.com>

=cut
