=head1 NAME

CGI::Bus::fut - File and directory utils library


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use CGI::Bus;
 $s =CGI::Bus->new();
 $s->fut->mkdir(directory);

=head1 DESCRIPTION


This module contains several file and directory methods.
See L<CGI::Bus::Base|CGI/Bus/Base> for inherited slots and methods.


=head1 CLASSIFICATION

=over

=item Directory utils

C<copy>, C<delete>, C<find>, C<glob>, C<globn>, C<mkdir>, C<rmpath>, C<size>

=item File utils

C<fcompare>, C<fhandle>, 
C<fload>, C<fstore>,
C<fdumpload>, C<fdumpstore>


=back



=head1 SLOTS

=over

None

=back

=head1 METHODS


=over

=item copy (?-rdfi, fromMask, to) -> success

Copy files and directories.
Options: 
'r'ecurse subdirectories,
'd'irectory target hint,
'f'ile target hint,
'i'gnore errors - continue copying.


=item delete (?-ri, pathFileMask) -> success

Delete files and directories.
Options: 
'r'ecurse subdirectories,
'i'gnore errors - continue deleting.


=item fcompare ( ?-opt, file, file ) -> not equal

Compare files using L<File::Compare|File/Compare>


=item fdump ( file, data ) -> success

=item fdump ( file ) -> data ref

=item fdumpstore ( file, data ref ) -> success

=item fdumpload ( file ) -> data ref

Store and load data structure to or from file using 
C<fstore>, C<fload>, 
L<CGI::Bus::dumpout|CGI/Bus>, L<CGI::Bus::dumpin|CGI/Bus>


=item fhandle ( file, sub{}) -> result

Selects given filehandle, evals sub, reselects previously selected handle. 
For filename, temporarily opens file with handle 'HANDLE',
selects this handle, evals sub...
Returns result of sub.


=item find ( ?-i!dlmrs, fileMask,..., sub(\@stat,path,name)...) -> num_matches

Find files and directories with given mask and evaluates sub, locally setting
$_ to filename. Returns number of sub agrees. There may be 
several subs and several filemasks for each sub, and they will be executed
within one transaction of C<find> call.
Uses C<FileGlob>

Options: 'i'gnore stat errors, '!' - not, 'd'irectories,
'l'ow before deep scan, 'm'ountpoints,
'r'ecurse directories, 's'ymlinks.

Parameters of sub are local $_ with full current filename, $_[0] with
reference to @stat array, $_[1] with path, $_[2] with filename.
Sub can return undefined value in $_ to signal stop, determine directories with
$_[0]->[2] & 0040000, prevent recursing by assigning $_[0]->[2] =0.


=item fload ( ?-asb, file, ?sub ) -> list of rows || data

Reads given file into memory as array or list ('-a'), text scalar ('-s'),
binary scalar ('-b'). Default, '-a' or '-b', is determined with L<wantarray|perlfunc/wantarray>.
Locks file with 'LOCK_SH'.

If sub is defined, it is evaluated for each row read into local $_, 
and with '-a' option results of each evaluation are returned as a list, 
true is returned otherwise.


=item fstore ( ?-b, file, data,...) -> success

Writes given data into given file. Locks file with 'LOCK_EX'.
Option '-b' chooses binary mode and
binary write. Without '-b', each element of data list is printed with 
trailing "\n" added.
Prepend file name with '>' sign to append to file existed.


=item glob ( pathMask ) -> entry list

Glob filenames with mask and return list of them such as 
standard C<glob> function.
When $^O eq 'MSWin32' own implementation with fragments from 
L<File::DosGlob|File/DosGlob> is used, else C<glob> is called.


=item globn ( pathMask ) -> entry list

Like C<glob>, but returns list of names only, without paths


=item mkdir ( path, ?perms ) -> success

Create path like standard L<mkdir|perlfunc/mkdir> call, but
with base directories if needed,
and optional permission mask (0777 default).


=item rmpath ( path ) -> success

Remove path, with base directories, if empty.
Returns the number of directories deleted.


=item -size ( ?-i, pathMask ) -> size of files described

Compute size of files and directories.
Uses C<find> and it's options.




=head1 VERSION

=over

=head2 21/12/2001 - 23/12/2001

Implemented and Documented.



=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Andrew V Makarow <makarow at mail.com>

=cut
