=head1 NAME

CGI::Bus::tm - database Transaction page Manager to view and edit data


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use CGI::Bus;
 $s =CGI::Bus->new();
 $s->tm->...see 'Transaction Sequence' below


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is database Transaction page Manager to view and edit data.

There are a common C<TRANSACTION SEQUENCE> and 
simplest programming interface using C<cmd>(-command) conditions and
direct database calls along with C<cnd> and C<qparam> calls.
Some common transaction commands for more usable programming interface
are also implemented.

Some slots are only predefined for children and not used within this module.
Some slots may be extended in subclasses.

See L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> as an example of details and
for more advanced SQL database applications development features.

See L<CGI::Bus::Base|CGI/Bus/Base> for inherited slots and methods.



=head1 TRANSACTION SEQUENCE

Transaction sequence is a series of hooks dependent on
current command C<cmd> and
current generic (or general or global) command C<cmdg>.
C<cmd>(-command) calls are used as conditions.
In simplest programming interface this conditions should be programmed.
In more usable programming interface (SQL generator) 
this conditions are hidden inside 
C<eval> or C<cmd>(C<-cmd>) call evaluating C<cmdCCC> methods, 
but may be hooked with C<-cmdCCC> slots.

A transaction sequence looks like something as:

 my $s =CGI::Bus->new();
 my $t =$s->tmsql;
 my $d =$s->dbi;        #
 eval {                 # inside $t->eval(?connect, sub{
   if ($t->cmd(-chk)) { # check before insert, update, delete # $t->cmdchk
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-ins)) { # insert record
       $d->execute('insert ...', @{$t->qparam([names])});
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-upd)) { # update record where cnd
       $t->cnd(-upd, field=>flags,...);
       $d->execute('update ...' .$t->cnd, @{$p->qparam([names])});       
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-del)) { # delete record where cnd
       $t->cnd(-del, field=>flags,...);
       $d->execute('delete ...' .$t->cnd);
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-sel)) { # select record fields to edit
       $t->cnd(-sel, field=>flags,...);
       $p->qparam($d->selectrow_hashref('...' .$t->cnd));      
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-crt)) { # create new record values            # $t->cmdcrt
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-qry)) { # list query condition                # $t->cmdqry
   }                                                          
   if ($t->cmd(-htm)) { # html page begin                     # $t->cmdhtm
       print $t->htmlhid;
       print $t->htmlbar;
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-frm)) { # html record form                    # $t->cmdfrm
     # print html form
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-lst)) { # list records
       $t->cnd(-lst, field=>flags,...);
       $d->select...
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-end)) { # commit, inside $t->eval call
       $d->commit
   }
 };
 $t->print($t->htmlres);# result msg, inside $t->eval call
}


=head2 Transaction Sequence and Calls

=over

=item -chk

Check or compute fields values before insert, update, delete operation - 
C<cmdchk> call


=item -ins

Insert record into database


=item -upd

Update record in the database.
Previous values parameters names have C<-pxpv> prefix.


=item -del

Delete record in the database.
Previous values parameters names have C<-pxpv> prefix.


=item -sel

Select record fields into L<CGI|CGI> params to view or edit.
Previous values parameters will be reseted.


=item -crt

Create new record fields values into L<CGI|CGI> params.
Initiate to present new record form.
C<cmdcrt> call.


=item -qry

List query condition values initiate as L<CGI|CGI> params -
C<cmdqry> call


=item -htm

HTML page begin output - 
print operations action bar
and hidden HTML - 
C<cmdhtm> call


=item -frm

Output HTML record form for query condition, view or edit - 
C<cmdfrm> call


=item -lst

List records to user according to filter, view chosen, query condition given


=item -end

Commit database transaction, the last command,
implemented inside C<eval> call along with C<htmlres> and rollback.


=back



=head1 SLOTS

=over


=item -acd

Access control description hash ref. RESERVED


=item -banner

Banner to place above the toolbar. 
May be sub{}(self) or HTML.
See also <-logo>


=item -cmd

Current transaction command cached by C<cmd>


=item -cmdc

Current transaction command cached inside C<cnd> calls


=item -cmdCCC

Transacion command 'CCC' hook subroutine reference.
Default operation is C<cmdCCC> call.
Commands are described in C<TRANSACTION SEQUENCE> above.


=item -cmde

Current transaction command edit state flag cached by C<cmd> calls


=item -cmdg

Generic (general, global) 
transaction command cached by C<cmd>, available via C<cmdg>.
This is any C<-cmd> command exept form exchanges - 
C<-frm>, C<-ins>, C<-upd> commands.


=item -cnd

Transaction condition string generated by C<cnd>


=item -fields

Form fields hash ref, converted from C<-form> by C<set>


=item -filter

Filter 'WHERE' clause for all SQL commands - string or sub{}.
C<-fltsel>, C<-fltlst>, C<-fltedt> takes precedence. RESERVED


=item -fltedt

Filter 'WHERE' clause SQL 'UPDATE' and 'DELETE' commands - string or sub{}.
RESERVED


=item -fltlst

Filter 'WHERE' clause SQL 'SELECT' command to list records - string or sub{}.
RESERVED


=item -fltsel

Filter 'WHERE' clause SQL 'SELECT' commands to view record - string or sub{}.
RESERVED


=item -form

Form data description array ref, extendable in subclasses.
See L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql>
for descriptions of field attributes used here:
C<-fld>, C<-lbl>, C<-cmt>, C<-flg> ('k'ey and 'm'andatory), C<-col>
C<-crt>, C<-frm>, C<-sav>, C<-ins>, C<-upd>, C<-del>


=item -formtgf

Form Target Frame. 
Target frame to open form for create new or edit existed record.
Undefined value means the same browser window as for list of records, 
'_BLANK' opens new browser window


=item -fsd

File store description hash ref, RESERVED


=item -ftext

Full-text search expression template for use in query condition for C<-lists>,
'$_' is placeholder. RESERVED


=item -genXXX

Generated database commands and clauses, RESERVED


=item -htmlts

=item -htmlte

Starting and ending data (form or view) table HTML.
Commonly used by default are '<table>' and '/<table>'.


=item -keyfld

Single key field name, RESERVED


=item -lboxrnm

Listbox rows number margin, RESERVED


=item -lists

Views data description hash ref, extendable in subclasses.
See L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql>
for descriptions of view attributes used here:
C<-lbl>, C<-cmt>, C<-fields>, C<-key>, C<-orderby>


=item -listrnm

View rows number default margin.
Margin of the number of the rows returned by C<-lst> operation


=item -logo

Logotype to place at the left of the toolbar. 
May be image URL or HTML.
See also C<-banner>, C<-tbarl>


=item -opflg

Operations allowed letters:
'<' leftmost left navigation action bar from C<htmlbar>;
'a'll:
'c'reate/'i'nsert, 'e'dit/'u'pdate, 'd'elete,
's'elect (?), 'v'iew record,
'l'ist, 'q'uery records;
!'c'reate/'i'nsert, !'e'dit/'u'pdate, !'d'elete record,
!'s'elect record button, !'v'iew record mode, !'q'uery condition



=item -pxcb

-pxcb => '_tcb_' - 
Transaction command or button name prefix


=item -pxqc 

-pxqc  => '_tsw_' - 
Special widget name prefix


=item -pxpv

-pxpv => '_tpv_' -
Previous value parameter name prefix for C<-upd> and C<-del> operation


=item -pxqc 

-pxqc => '_tqc_' -
Query condition parameter name prefix for save by C<-lst> operation


=item -refresh

Refresh frequency for all lists (views) of recods,
used to generate <meta http-equiv="refresh" CONTENT=XX>


=item -rowlst

=item -rowsel

=item -rowedt

=item -rowsav

=item -rowins

=item -rowupd

=item -rowdel

Subs{} to allow or filter row operation given.
Are used at a lower level, then C<-cmdCCC> subs{}.
May be used for access control.
C<-rowlst> is to be evaluated for each row in C<cmdlst> to filter rows to display.
C<-rowedt> controls record edit appearance.
C<-rowupd> and C<-rowdel> (and C<-rowsav> in this cases)
are to evaluate when previous values
of fields are fetched to C<-pxpv> parameters.
Partially RESERVED.


=item -rowsav1

=item -rowsav2

=item -rowsav1a

=item -rowsav2a

Like C<-rowsav>, but immediatelly before or 'a'fter database (SQL) command
generation and execution.
Actual field values to be used for or 'a'fter database command are 
available as L<CGI|CGI> params.
C<-rowsav1> is used for edited record only 
(new value fieldnames not prefixed).
C<-rowsav2> is used for each database command 
(new value fieldnames may be prefixed).



=item -rowsel1a

=item -rowsel2a

Like C<-rowsel>, but immediatelly 'a'fter database (SQL SELECT) command
generation and execution.
Field values are available as L<CGI|CGI> params, 
both previous (C<-pxpv>) and pending.
C<-rowsel1a> is used while editing record only 
(when previous field values selected).
C<-rowsel2a> is used for each record selection
(previous or current field values selected).



=item -tbarl

Left toolbar HTML or HTML strings array ref for C<-htm> operation


=item -tbarr

Right toolbar HTML or HTML strings array ref for C<-htm> operation


=item -vsd

Version store description hash ref, RESERVED


=item -width

Width of data (form or view) table, in '&nbsp;' chars


=back



=head1 METHODS

Common methods: 
C<qparampv>, C<qparamsw>, C<qparampx>, C<htmlself>,
C<cmd>, C<cmdg>, 
C<htmlbar>, C<htmlhid>, C<htmlres>, C<htmlself>, 
C<eval>, C<evaluate>

Programming interface: 
C<evaluate>, C<eval>, C<cmd>, C<cnd>

Transaction commands implementations: 
C<cmdchk>, C<cmdcrt>, C<cmdqry>, C<cmdhtm>, C<cmdfrm>, C<cmdhlp>


=over


=item cmd -> current command

=item cmd (-command) -> is command matched?

=item cmd (-cmd) -> execution of all commands required

Current transaction command


=item cmdchk () -> check before insert, update, delete

Check fields (L<CGI|CGI> params) values before insert or update
with C<-chk> subs{}.
Calculate fields values with C<-frm>, C<-sav>, 
C<-ins>, C<-upd>, C<-del> subs{} 
before insert, update, delete


=item cmdcrt () -> params with default values

Create L<CGI|CGI> params with C<-crt> default values for new record


=item cmdfe () -> form editing?

Check if there is form editing operation.


=item cmdfrm () -> HTML form fields printed

Print HTML form fields for new, view or edit record


=item cmdg -> current generic command

=item cmdg (-command,...) -> is one of commands matched?

Current generic (general, global) transaction command is any C<-cmd> command 
exept form exchanges like C<-frm>, C<-ins>, C<-upd>.


=item cmdhlp ()  -> Help screen HTML printed

Print Help page HTML, constructed with C<-form> and C<-lists>
descriptions


=item cmdhtm ()  -> top form HTML printed

Print HTML at the top of the list of records or form of record.
By other words, print C<htmlbar> and C<htmlhid>.


=item cmdqry () -> params with default values

Create L<CGI|CGI> params with C<-qry> default values for query parameters form



=item cnd -> current transaction command condition string

=item cnd (?-cmd, param => format,...) -> condition string

=item cnd (?-cmd, ?'+', ?'-and|or', ?'+and|or', ?'prefix.', param, ?'fieldname=', format,...) -> condition string

Makes dbi transaction command condition string or returns current condition string.
'-+and|or' prepends or appends 'and' or 'or' to condition string 
generated if it is not empty.
Field values may contain condition expression used for C<-lst> transaction.
Field values are given from CGI C<param>s.
Field formats may be 
empty, quote ("'", '"'), sub, string template with '?' placeholder for value.


=item eval (?dbi connect parameters, ?sub{}) -> DBI transaction

Connect to the database, execute given sub{} in L<DBI|DBI> transaction,
print C<htmlres>, commit or rollback on errors.
Default procedure is C<cmd>('-cmd').
See also C<evaluate>


=item evaluate () -> operation requested by browser

Full L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> execution.
Like C<eval>, but with starting HTTP, 
starting and ending HTML page.
Uses '-htpgstart' and '-htpfstart' from parent L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus>


=item htmlbar (?opt) -> action bar HTML

Generate action bar HTML string dependent on options or C<-opflg>,
current transaction, C<-tbarl> , C<-tbarr>.


=item htmlhid () -> hidden HTML

Generate hidden HTML string.
Hidden HTML contains saved parameters values like 
previous values of fields.


=item htmlres () -> transaction result HTML

Generate transaction result HTML string - 
empty or success or error message.


=item htmlself (command, param=>val,...) -> self command hyperlink HTML

=item htmlself (command, param=>val,..., {attributes})

=item htmlself ({attributes}, command, param=>val,...)

Generate self script command hyperlink HTML.
See C<cmd> and C<TRANSACTION SEQUENCE> for commands.
Attributes for 'A' HTML tag may be given as an array or hash ref.


=item pxnme ( prefix => name ) -> prefixed name

=item pxcb ( name ) -> command button name

=item pxsw ( name ) -> special widget name

=item pxpv ( name ) -> previous value name

=item pxqc ( name ) -> query condition name

Prefix field or param name given to construct special name.
Prefixes are C<-pxcb>, C<-pxsw>, C<-pxpv>, C<-pxqc>.


=item qlst () -> queried list name

List (view) name queried or default


=item qparampv (name,...) -> previous value of param

C<qparam> call with C<-pxpv> prefixed param names.


=item qparampx (prefix) -> [field names]

=item qparampx (prefix,...) -> qparam prefixed

Get params names with prefix given or
C<qparam> call with prefixed param names.
Empty prefix means non-prefixed names.


=item qparamsw (name,...) -> special widget value

C<qparam> call with C<-pxsw> prefixed param names.


=back


=head1 VERSION

=over


=head2 23/08/2007

New C<-banner>.


=head2 16-17/11/2004

New !'c'reate/'i'nsert, !'d'elete, !'e'dit/'u'pdate, !'q'uery C<-opflg> options.
New C<cmdfe> method.
Changed C<htmlbar> considering C<-vsd> option.


=head2 03/11/2004

New experimantal C<_tsw_LSO> / C<qloval> / C<qlourl> / C<qlowgh> / C<qlowgl> / C<qloparse>
interface to implement options embedded into views.


=head2 18-19/10/2004

=item Changed:

C<evaluate> executes now some L<CGI::Bus::upws|CGI/Bus/upws>
'_run' commands as full-text 'SEARCH' or user 'SETUP'.

C<qlst> may determine default view via '_' sign not only at the end of
the view name, but at the end of the view label too.


=head2 26/06/2003

=item Changed:

C<htmlbar> button set behaviour:
'Login' button moved after 'Back' and will be always shown for guests;
'Login' button small picture resized;
'List' button in the record form replaced with 'Query' button 
and excluded when record editing;
'Edit' button will not be shown for guests.


=head2 28/04/2003

=item Fixed:

C<cmdfrm> 'l'ist, 's'elect, '"'quoted only fields (C<-flg> =~/^["'ls]*$/)
are not considered in form layout now


=head2 17/04/2003

=item Improved:

C<cmdfrm> text area formatting improved with '&nbsp;' signs and '<code>' tags as needed.


=head2 25/11/2002

=item Fixed:

C<cmdfrm> lost line breacks when displaying text areas with embedded URLs


=head2 13/09/2002

=item New:

C<-logo> slot

=item Changed:

C<htmlbar> and C<cmdhlp> behaviour for '<' C<-opflg>.



=head2 05/06/2002

=item New:

C<-refresh> view and common slots



=head2 02/06/2002

=item New:

C<-htmlts>, C<-htmlte>, C<-width> common slots


=head2 16/05/2002

=item New:

C<-rowsav1> and C<-rowsav2> events inside C<cmdsql>.


=head2 07/05/2002

=item Changed:

 - textarea fields displays linebreaks when viewed
 - 'Select' and 'Edit' command buttons appearance
 - '!s'elect record button '-opflg' value


=head2 05/04/2002 - 06/05/2002

=item New:

 - imagebuttons toolbar using -iurl slot;
   uncomment at the beginning of the source to disable;
   see issue in the source code



=head2 19/01/2002 - 23/03/2002

=item New:

Implemented and Documented.


=item ToDo:

 - review & test & debug

=item Questions:

 - how to move 'qparampv' and 'qparamsw' methods up to the application object?

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Andrew V Makarow <makarow at mail.com>

=cut
