=head1 NAME

CGI::Bus::tmsql - SQL database user interface to view and edit data


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use CGI::Bus;
 $s =CGI::Bus->new();
 $s->dbi("DBI:mysql:mysql","root","");
 $s->tmsql->set(-form=>[
    {-tbl=>'mysql.user', -alias=>'u'}
   ,{-flg=>'ak"',        -fld=>'host',-crt=>'localhost',-qry=>'localhost'}
   ,{-flg=>'cieulqsk"',  -fld=>'user'}
   ,{-flg=>'cevls"',     -fld=>'password'}
   ]);
 $s->tmsql->set(-lists=>{'default'=>{-orderby=>'1 ASC, 2 DESC'}});
 $s->tmsql->evaluate;


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is an SQL database user interface to view and edit data,
page transaction manager.

There are a common C<TRANSACTION SEQUENCE> and two programming interfaces. 
Simplest interface uses C<cmd>(-command) conditions and
direct L<DBI|DBI> calls along with C<cnd> and C<qparam> calls.
More usable interface (SQL generator) uses C<DATA DESCRIPTION> inside 
C<-form> and C<-lists> slots  
with C<eval> or C<evaluate> or C<cmd>('-cmd') call.

See L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm> as base class.

See L<CGI::Bus::Base|CGI/Bus/Base> for inherited slots and methods.



=head1 TRANSACTION SEQUENCE

Transaction sequence is a series of hooks dependent on
current command C<cmd> and
current generic (or general or global) command C<cmdg>.
C<cmd>(-command) calls are used as conditions.
In simplest programming interface this conditions should be programmed.
In more usable programming interface (SQL generator) 
this conditions are hidden inside 
C<eval> or C<cmd>(C<-cmd>) call evaluating C<cmdCCC> methods, 
but may be hooked with C<-cmdCCC> slots.

Using simplest interface, transaction sequence looks like something as:

 my $s =CGI::Bus->new();
 my $t =$s->tmsql;
 my $d =$s->dbi;        #
 eval {                 # inside $t->eval(?connect, sub{
   if ($t->cmd(-chk)) { # check before insert, update, delete # $t->cmdchk
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-ins)) { # insert record # $t->cmdins
       $d->execute('insert ...', @{$t->qparam([names])});
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-upd)) { # update record where cnd # $t->cmdupd
       $t->cnd(-upd, field=>flags,...);
       $d->execute('update ...' .$t->cnd, @{$p->qparam([names])});       
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-del)) { # delete record where cnd # $t->cmddel
       $t->cnd(-del, field=>flags,...);
       $d->execute('delete ...' .$t->cnd);
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-sel)) { # select record fields to edit # $t->cmdsel
       $t->cnd(-sel, field=>flags,...);
       $p->qparam($d->selectrow_hashref('...' .$t->cnd));      
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-crt)) { # create new record values # $t->cmdcrt
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-qry)) { # list query condition # $t->cmdqry
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-htm)) { # html page begin # $t->cmdhtm
       print $t->htmlhid;
       print $t->htmlbar;
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-frm)) { # html record form # $t->cmdfrm
     # print html form
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-lst)) { # list records # $t->cmdlst
       $t->cnd(-lst, field=>flags,...);
       $d->select...
   }
   if ($t->cmd(-end)) { # commit, inside $t->eval call
       $d->commit
   }
 };
 $t->print($t->htmlres);# result msg, inside $t->eval call
}


=head2 Transaction Sequence and Calls

=over

=item -chk

Check or compute fields values before insert, update, delete operation - 
C<cmdchk> call


=item -ins

Insert record into database - C<cmdins> call


=item -upd

Update record in the database.
Previous values parameters names have C<-pxpv> prefix.
C<cmdupd> call.


=item -del

Delete record in the database.
Previous values parameters names have C<-pxpv> prefix.
C<cmddel> call.


=item -sel

Select record fields into L<CGI|CGI> params to view or edit.
Previous values parameters will be reseted.
C<cmdsel> call.


=item -crt

Create new record fields values into L<CGI|CGI> params.
Initiate to present new record form.
C<cmdcrt> call.


=item -qry

List query condition values initiate as L<CGI|CGI> params
- C<cmdqry> call


=item -htm

HTML page begin output - 
print operations action bar
and hidden HTML - 
C<cmdhtm> call


=item -frm

Output HTML record form for query condition, view or edit - 
C<cmdfrm> call


=item -lst

List records to user according to filter, view chosen, query condition given
- C<cmdlst> call


=item -end

Commit database transaction, the last command,
implemented inside C<eval> call along with C<htmlres> and rollback.


=back




=head1 DATA DESCRIPTION

About all C<SLOTS> of C<CGI::Bus::tmsql> object are related to
data description, but several slots have a complex format described below.
All slots are available via C<new> or C<set> call.



=head2 Form Description

Form description C<-form> slot contains C<Table Description>,
C<Field Description>, and HTML elements as array ref:

C<set>(C<-form> => 
[{ C<-tbl> => table_name, C<-alias>, C<-join>, C<-joina>, C<-joinw> },
{ C<-fld> => field_name, C<-flg>, C<-col>, C<-src>, 
C<-lbl>, C<-lblhtml>, C<-cmt>, 
C<-inp>, C<-inphtml>, C<-hide>, C<-hidel>, C<-colspan>, C<-width>,
C<-chk>, C<-sav>, 
C<-qry>, C<-crt>, C<-frm>, 
C<-null>, C<-cstr>, C<-clst>, C<-cdb>, C<-cdbC>, C<-cdbCa> }
........,
HTML, .......])


Related to table fields should be described below table.

Sequence of fields corresponds to form and default views.

HTML element may be
"" - to continue field placement in the current row
(otherwise next field will be placed at the next row),
"\t" - to skip table cell,
"\f" - to finish tabular layout,
"</table>" - to finish tabular layout and output of labels,
"string" - string to print,
\&sub - to eval and print



=head2 Table Description

{ C<-tbl> => table_name, C<-alias>, C<-join>, C<-joina>, C<-joinw> }
element of C<Form Description> C<-form> slot

Required are C<-tbl> and some of joins for joined tables

=over

=item -alias

Table alias used in SQL selects


=item -join

Join operation in 'FROM' SQL 'SELECT' clause at the left of the table mention


=item -joina

Join operation in 'FROM' SQL 'SELECT' clause at the right of the table mention

=item -joinw

Join condition for 'WHERE' SQL 'SELECT' clause


=item -tbl

Table name in database
 

=back


=head2 Field Description

{ C<-fld> => field_name, C<-flg>, C<-col>, C<-src>,
C<-lbl>, C<-lblhtml>, C<-cmt>, 
C<-inp>, C<-inphtml>, C<-hide>, C<-hidel>,
C<-chk>, C<-sav>, C<-ins>, C<-upd>,
C<-qry>, C<-crt>, C<-frm>, 
C<-null>, C<-cstr>, C<-clst>, C<-cdb>, C<-cdbC>, C<-cdbCa> }
element of C<Form Description> C<-form> slot.
Required are only C<-fld> and C<-flg>.

=over


=item -cdb

Convert param to database sub{}.
Sub to convert field value (L<CGI|CGI> param) to database form


=item -cdbC

Convert or compute field value sub{} on 'C' database command -
'i'nsert, 'u'pdate, or 'd'elete.
In C<cmdsql> it will be evaluated
just before command, when SQL generation.
Autogenerated key value may be implemented via '-cdbi' sub.
Computed fields may be implemented via C<-frm> or C<-sav> sub.
See also C<-cdbCa>, C<-frm>, C<-sav>.


=item -cdbCa

Convert or compute field value sub{} after 'C' database command -
'i'nsert, 'u'pdate, or 'd'elete.
In C<cmdsql> it will be evaluated just after SQL execution.
Generated by database key value may be retrieved via '-cdbia' sub{},
e.g. -cdbia => sub{$_[0]->dbi->{'mysql_insertid'}}.
See also C<-cdbC>, C<-frm>, C<-sav>.


=item -chk

 -chk => "perl code"
 -chk => sub{}
 -chk => [ sub{}, message string ]

Check field value before C<-ins> or C<-upd> action - insert or update.


=item -clst

Convert sub{} to use in list.
Sub{}(self, {field definition}, field data, {row data}) 
to convert value to HTML for use in list of records (C<-lst> action).
Default is nothing.


=item -cmt

=item -cmt_LNG

Comment to field. LNG is C<lngname>


=item -colspan

'td' HTML tag attribute - number of form columns to occupy widget with


=item -crt

Create default field value.
Default field value for new record creation (C<-crt> action).
Sub{} or value.


=item -cstr

Convert to string sub{}.
Sub{} to convert value to external form - 
for use in list of records (C<-lst> action)
or record edit/view form (C<-frm> action)


=item -col

Table column name.
Database table column name of the field.
May be database function call to use in SQL SELECT.
Default is field name C<-fld>


=item -del

Delete record field value, sub{} or value, computed inside C<cmdchk>
under C<-del> command. See also C<-ins>, C<-upd>, C<-sav>.


=item -fld

Field name, unique in the C<Form Description>, used as L<CGI|CGI> param name
with or without prefix like C<-pxpv>


=item -flg

Field flags string:

 'a'll - use in all operations below (except 'f'etch, 'k'ey and below)

 'c'reate - create new record
 'e'dit   - edit record and field
 'v'iew   - view record or  field
            'av' - always view only, not edit
            'cv' - view only when new record created
            'ev' - view only when record is edited
 'l'ist   - list records
 'f'etch  - fetch only when list
 'q'uery  - query condition form to list records

 'i'nsert - insert to database
 'u'pdate - update in database
 'd'elete - delete in database           (reserved)
 's'elect - select from database

 'k'ey       - key field, use to open record from list of records
 'w'here key - use field along with key in update or delete condition
               for optimistic locking
 'm'andatory - value is required
 'g'enerated - value is generated by database
 '"',"'"     - quote method of the value ('[' reserved)
 'n'umeric   - numeric value             (reserved)



=item -frm

Compute field value sub{}
to evaluate on C<-chk> or C<-frm> command.
See also C<-sav>


=item -hide

Hide field from Form (C<-frm>) condition sub{}


=item -hidel

Hide field from Form (C<-frm>) condition sub{}.
Fields at the right will be shifted to the left.


=item -inp

Input or edit HTML widget description:
-inp=>{?attributes} or -inp=>[input_type => {?attributes}].
Short form may be used to describe 
'textfield' or 'htmltextfield', 
'textarea' or 'htmltextarea', 
or 'popup_menu'.
C<-htmlopt> => 1 attribute causes to use data as HTML if 
HTML formatting detected with C<ishtml> L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> method.
'htmltextarea' URLs display behaviour is extended with 
special URL protocol 'fsurl://' to be translated to C<fsurl> value.
See also L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus> for 'htmltextfield' and 'htmltextarea'
attributes.


=item -inphtml

Input/edit widget HTML background. Value or sub{} to compute it.
HTML code to place into form with HTML widget C<-inp> embedded.
May contain 'TD' or 'TH' HTML tags.
'$_' marks the insertion point for widget.
See also C<htmlddlb>.


=item -ins

Insert field value, sub{} or value, computed inside C<cmdchk>
under C<-ins> command. See also C<-upd>, C<-del>, C<-sav>.


=item -lbl

=item -lbl_LNG

Field label.
External name of the field to use 
in list of records (C<-lst>) or form (C<-frm>).
LNG is C<lngname>


=item -lblhtml

Label HTML background. Value or sub{} to compute it.
HTML code to place into form with field label C<-lbl> embedded.
May contain 'TD' or 'TH' HTML tags.
'$_' marks the insertion point for label.


=item -null

NULL or undefined value to present


=item -qry

Default query condition.
Default value for query condition for the list of records.
Sub{} or value.


=item -sav

Field value or sub{} to compute it before data save - 
C<-ins>, C<-upd>, C<-del> - 
for computed when saved fields, inside C<cmdchk>.
Computed fields may be implemented via C<-frm> sub.
See also C<-cdbC>, C<-frm>.


=item -src

Source of value, RESERVED.
Source value field for join, insert, edit


=item -upd

Update field value, sub{} or value, computed inside C<cmdchk>
under C<-upd> command. See also C<-ins>, C<-del>, C<sav>.


=item -width

Width of the data cell.
Number of characters to use in lists.
Or 'td' or 'th' HTML tag attribute to
use in forms and lists


=back




=head2 Views Description

Views description C<-lists> slot contains hash ref:

C<set>(C<-lists> => 
{ view_name=>{ C<-lst>, C<-lbl>, C<-cmt>, 
C<-fields>, C<-key>, C<-listurm>,
C<-dsub>, C<-sub>,
C<-where>, C<-wherepar>, C<-filter>, C<-rowlst>, C<-orderby>, C<-groupby>,
C<-href>, C<-hrefc>,
C<-htmlts>, C<-htmlte>, C<-width>, C<-refresh>,
C<-gant1>, C<-gant2>, C<-htmlg1>
}
, ........} )

Default view should be marked with '_' at the end of the name or 
it will be the first in sorted order.
Hidden (from list of views) view should be marked with '_'
at the begin of the name.


=over

=item -cmdCCC

Transacion command 'CCC' hook subroutine reference. 
Commands and default operation are described in L<CGI::Bus::tm|CGI/Bus/tm>,
see TRANSACTION SEQUENCE and -cmdCCC slot.


=item -cmt

=item -cmt_LNG

Comment text for view, string or array ref.
LNG is C<lngname>


=item -dsub

Data feeder sub{} to provide array ref of rows instead SQL SELECT


=item -fields 

-fields => [field names to view]
Field names to use in view, in left to right order.
Default fields and order is specified by C<-form> and C<-flg>.


=item -filter

Filter 'WHERE' clause for SQL Select - string or sub{} - 
to use instead upper C<-fltlst> or C<-filter>


=item -gant1

=item -gant2

Datetime field names or SQL expressions 
to produce left and right valies
to generate Gant (timeline) chart.
Values returned should be ISO date-time 'yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss', where
time digits are optional.


=item -groupby 

'GROUP BY' clause string for SQL 'SELECT'


=item -htmlts

=item -htmlte

Starting and ending records table HTML, including '<table >' tags.


=item -htmlg1

Gant (timeline) chart cell HTML, including '<td>' tags.


=item -href

 -href => [ ?url, ?command_param, ?command_value ]

URL to open view entry, used with key parameters added


=item -hrefc

Last view column number inside hyperlink.
Default is 0 - first column only;
-1 means all columns.


=item -key

 -key => [field,...]

Key fields to open list entry parameters


=item -lst

=item -lst_LNG

View name as displayed to user,
default is key of view.
LNG is C<lngname>


=item -listrnm

View rows number default margin.
Margin of the number of the rows returned by C<-lst> operation


=item -listurm

 -listurm => [field,...]

Fields to include into hyperlinks to produce 'unread marks' behaviour,
defaults are 'w'here key fields


=item -orderby

'ORDER BY' clause string or array ref for SQL 'SELECT'.
May be redefined by user in 'Query' screen.


=item -refresh

Refresh frequency for view HTML page,
used to generate <meta http-equiv="refresh" CONTENT=XX>


=item -rowlst

Sub{}(self, [fields definitions], [row data], {row data})
to allow row to be included in the list displayed.
To use instead of upper C<-rowlst>.


=item -sub

View implementation sub{} instead C<cmdlst>


=item -where

'WHERE' clause part string for SQL 'SELECT'.
Complete 'WHERE' clause is formed with C<-fltlst> or C<-filter>,
C<-where>, 'Query' screen condition or C<-wherepar>.


=item -wherepar

Default 'Query' screen 'WHERE' condition to be used as a part for SQL 'SELECT'.


=item -width

Width of view records table, in '&nbsp;' chars



=back


=head2 Access Control Description

Simple access control may be implemented with
C<-filter>, C<-fltlst>, C<-fltedt> slots, that are
additions to SQL statement 'where' clause.
Operations with single record (C<-sel>, C<-ins>, C<-upd>, C<-del>)
may use C<-acd> slot described below.
Only this slot may be used with C<File Store Description>.

C<set>(C<-acd>=>{C<-read>, C<-readsub>, C<-sread>, C<-write>, C<-swrite>, C<-oswrite>})


=over

=item -cC

Substitution for 'c' slot (see below)
and 'C' command ('i'nsert, 'u'pdate, 'd'elete).
Array ref is treated as usernames are used for insert, fieldnames otherwise.


=item -htaccess

Force to generate '.htaccess' files without Apache - boolean or sub{} condition


=item -oswrite

Sub{} or array ref with usernames of operation system writers,
used for file access control settings, default are
Windows 'System' and 'Administrators'


=item -read

Sub{} or array ref with fieldnames with reader usernames.
Usernames may be delimited with commas or semicolons inside field.


=item -readsub

Sub{} to test record read permission, along with C<-read> and C<-sread>.


=item -sread

Sub{} or array ref with usernames of system readers


=item -swrite

Sub{} or array ref with usernames of system writers


=item -write

Sub{} or array ref with fieldnames with writer usernames.
Usernames may be delimited with commas or semicolons inside field.


=back



=head2 Version Store Description

Record versioning description related slots are
C<-keyfld> - single key field name and
C<-vsd> - version store description.
C<-vsd> slots 
C<-npf>,  C<-cof>, C<-cvd>, C<-sf>, C<-svd>, C<-sd>, C<-uuf>, C<-utf>
are described below

=over

=item -cof

Checked out pointer field name, RESERVED


=item -npf

New version pointer field name


=item -sd

State deleted value of C<-sf>


=item -sf

State field name


=item -cvd

Condition version disable sub{}, 
used instead of condition param(C<-sf>) eq C<-svd>


=item -svd

State versioning disable C<-sf> value


=item -utf

Update time field name.
C<-sav> C<-form> field attribute may be used instead.


=item -uuf

Update user field name.
C<-sav> C<-form> field attribute may be used instead.


=back


=head2 File Store Description

Attached to records files storing related slots are
C<-keyfld> - single key field name and
C<-fsd> - file store description.
C<-fsd> slots 
C<-path>,  C<-vspath>, C<-urf>, C<-url>, C<-vsurf>, C<-vsurl>, C<-ksplit>, C<-acl>
are described below

=over

=item -acl

Access control list set sub{}, may be used inside C<fsacl>


=item -ksplit

Subdirectories size to split key value to, or splitter sub{}.
Some file systems do not like very many entries in directory.
0 - do not split.


=item -path

Path to file store root directory


=item -urf

Filesystem URL of file store root directory,
to form 'file://' URLs


=item -url

URL of file store root directory


=item -vspath

Path to separate store old versions, optional


=item -vsurf

Filesystem URL to separate store old versions, optional


=item -vsurl

URL to separate store old versions, optional


=back



=head2 Other Descriptions

C<-filter>, C<-fltsel>, C<-fltlst>, C<-fltedt>, C<-opflg>, 
C<-listrnm>, C<-lboxrnm>, C<-listurm>



=head2 Usage Tips

=over

=item File and Version Store

Access to files in File Store is direct, unlike data in database,
where previous values of the record are available.
So, files editing is available only during 'edit' record state,
determined by C<-svd> or C<-cvd>.
Files editing is always available in applications without 
versioning (C<-vsd> settings).


=item Template Records with File and Version Store

There may be special template data records to create new records with.
User should open template record, edit it as needed, 
and invoke 'Insert' action.
Attached to template files inside File Store (C<-fsd>)
and under Version Store (C<-vsd>) may be involved by
opening template record, editing it, 
choosing 'edit' (C<-svd>) record state, 
invoking 'Insert' action.
Creation record by template could not be implemented via
'template' -> 'edit' -> 'Update' transition, because of
template's own 'edit' state. So, 'template' -> 'non-template' -> 'Update'
transition should only be applied to template record.


=item Short Usernames

It is not comfortable for user to always input user names 
with domain name part, especially if domain is the same as user logged in.
So, software may translate short user names to full, 
or use variants of the user names.
But long and complex SQL queries are not comfortable for software.
And domain name is not always natural part of the name of the person.
So, user names should be short if possible.



=back



=head1 SLOTS

=over


=item -acd

Access control description hash ref. 
See C<Access Control Description>


=item -cmd

Current transaction command cached by C<cmd>


=item -cmdc

Current transaction command cached inside C<cnd> calls


=item -cmdCCC

Transaction command 'CCC' hook subroutine reference.
Default operation is C<cmdCCC> call.
Commands are described in C<TRANSACTION SEQUENCE> above.


=item -cmde

Current transaction command edit state flag cached by C<cmd> calls


=item -cmdg

Generic (general, global) 
transaction command cached by C<cmd>, available via C<cmdg>.
This is any C<-cmd> command except form exchanges - 
C<-frm>, C<-ins>, C<-upd> commands.


=item -cnd

Transaction condition string generated by C<cnd>


=item -filter

Filter 'WHERE' clause for all SQL commands - string or sub{}.
C<-fltsel>, C<-fltlst>, C<-fltedt> takes precedence


=item -fltedt

Filter 'WHERE' clause SQL 'UPDATE' and 'DELETE' commands - string or sub{}


=item -fltlst

Filter 'WHERE' clause SQL 'SELECT' command to list records - string or sub{}


=item -fltsel

Filter 'WHERE' clause SQL 'SELECT' command to view record - string or sub{}


=item -form

Form data description, see C<Form Description>


=item -formtgf

Form Target Frame. 
Target frame to open form for create new or edit existed record.
Undefined value means the same browser window as for list of records, 
'_BLANK' opens new browser window


=item -fsd

File store description hash ref. 
See C<File Store Description>


=item -ftext

Full-text search expression template for use in query condition for C<-lists>,
'$_' is placeholder.
'%$_' placeholder prepends search string with '%' sign to use in 'LIKE'.
Example: '(col1 LIKE %$_ OR col2 LIKE %$_)'.
Example: 'MATCH (col1,col2,...) AGAINST ($_)'.


=item -genedt

Generated by C<cmdsql> SQL 'INSERT', 'UPDATE', or 'DELETE' statement


=item -genfrom

Generated by C<cmdlst> or C<cmdsel> or C<cmdsql> SQL statement 'FROM' clause


=item -gensel

Generated by C<cmdlst> or C<cmdsel> SQL 'SELECT' statement to list record(s)


=item -genselg

Generated by C<cmdlst> SQL 'SELECT' statement to get margins for
Gant (timeline) chart using min(C<-gant1>) and max(C<-gant2>).


=item -genselt

Title of generated by C<cmdlst> SQL 'SELECT' statement to display above records.


=item -genwhr

Generated by C<cmdlst> or C<cmdsel> or C<cmdsql> SQL statement 'WHERE' clause


=item -htmlts

=item -htmlte

Starting and ending data (form or view) table HTML.
Commonly used by default are '<table>' and '/<table>'.


=item -keyfld

Single key field name for versioning and file fields, cached by C<keyfld>


=item -lboxrnm

Listbox rows number margin for C<htmlddlb>


=item -lists

Views data description, see C<Views Description>


=item -listrnm

View rows number default margin.
Margin of the number of the rows returned by C<-lst> operation


=item -listurm

 -listurm => [field,...]

Fields to include into hyperlinks to produce 'unread marks' behaviour,
defaults are 'w'here key fields


=item -logo

Logotype to place at the left of the toolbar. 
May be image URL or HTML.
See also C<-tbarl>


=item -opflg

Operations allowed letters:
'<' leftmost left navigation action bar from C<htmlbar>;
'a'll:
'c'reate/'i'nsert,
'e'dit/'u'pdate,
'd'elete record;
's'elect record (?), '!s'elect record button;
'v'iew record, '!v'iew record mode;
'l'ist records, 'q'uery condition



=item -pxcb

-pxcb => '_tcb_' - 
Transaction command or button name prefix


=item -pxqc 

-pxqc  => '_tsw_' - 
Special widget name prefix


=item -pxpv

-pxpv => '_tpv_' -
Previous value parameter name prefix for C<-upd> and C<-del> operation


=item -pxqc 

-pxqc => '_tqc_' -
Query condition parameter name prefix for save by C<-lst> operation



=item -refresh

Refresh frequency for all lists (views) of recods,
used to generate <meta http-equiv="refresh" CONTENT=XX>



=item -rowlst

=item -rowsel

=item -rowedt

=item -rowsav

=item -rowins

=item -rowupd

=item -rowdel

Subs{} to allow or filter row operation given.
Are used at a lower level, then C<-cmdCCC> subs{}.
May be used for access control.
C<-rowlst> is evaluated for each row in C<cmdlst> to filter rows to display.
C<-rowedt> controls record edit appearance.
C<-rowupd> and C<-rowdel> (and C<-rowsav> in this cases)
are evaluated when previous values
of fields are fetched to C<-pxpv> parameters.



=item -rowsav1

=item -rowsav2

=item -rowsav1a

=item -rowsav2a

Like C<-rowsav>, but immediatelly before or 'a'fter database (SQL) command
generation and execution.
Actual field values to be used for or 'a'fter database command are 
available as L<CGI|CGI> params.
C<-rowsav1> is used for edited record only 
(new value fieldnames not prefixed).
C<-rowsav2> is used in each C<cmdsql> call
(new value fieldnames may be prefixed).



=item -rowsel1a

=item -rowsel2a

=item -rowsel3a

Like C<-rowsel>, but immediatelly 'a'fter database (SQL SELECT) command
generation and execution.
Field values are available as L<CGI|CGI> params, 
both previous (C<-pxpv>) and pending.
C<-rowsel1a> is used while editing record operation only 
(when previous field values selected).
C<-rowsel2a> is used in each interactive C<cmdsel> call
(previous or current field values selected).
C<-rowsel3a> is used after each record fetch using C<cmdsel> call.



=item -tbarl

Left toolbar HTML or HTML strings array ref for C<-htm> operation


=item -tbarr

Right toolbar HTML or HTML strings array ref for C<-htm> operation


=item -vsd

Version store description hash ref. 
See C<Version Store Description>


=item -width

Width of data (form or view) table, in '&nbsp;' chars


=back



=head1 METHODS

Common methods: C<qparampv>, C<qparamsw>, C<qparampx>, C<htmlself>,
C<cmd>, C<cmdg>, 
C<htmlbar>, C<htmlhid>, C<htmlres>, C<htmlself>, 
C<htmlddlb>, C<htmllst>,
C<eval>, C<evaluate>

Simplest programming interface: C<cmd>, C<cnd>, and above

Usable programming interface: C<evaluate>, C<eval>, C<cmd>

Advanced usable: C<cmdchk>, 
C<cmdsql>, C<cmdins>, C<cmdupd>, C<cmddel>, C<cmdsel>, 
C<cmdcrt>, C<cmdqry>, C<cmdhtm>, C<cmdfrm>, C<cmdlst>,
C<acltest>, C<aclsel>,
and above


=over


=item aclsel () -> SQL SELECT WHERE clause part

=item aclsel (?'-t', ?'-and', ?'-not', ?field name,...,?[user names],...)

Generates WHERE clause part for SQL SELECT from C<-acd>
data or field names given. 
'-t' option (default) is used to 't'est with C<acltest>('-lst')
if condition needed (user not in C<-sread> or C<-swrite>).
'-and' option produces ' AND' prefix before not empty condition.
'-not' option produces 'AND ... NOT IN' behaviour.

User names array ref replaces default or current user names list.
Sub{}($self,$field,$users) will be evaluated for the field name followed.
m/^\$_(regexp|rlike)$/i value produces 'REGEXP' or 'RLIKE' 
MySQL-like expression on user names to match the field followed.
m/.*\$_.*/ value is treated as a template string to be used for the field 
followed, with '$_f' and '$_u' placeholders for field and user names.

May be used in C<-fltlst>, C<-fltsel>, C<-filter>.


=item cmd -> current command

=item cmd (-command) -> is command matched?

=item cmd (-cmd) -> execution of all commands required

Current transaction command


=item cmdchk () -> check before insert, update, delete

Check fields (L<CGI|CGI> params) values before insert or update
with C<-chk> subs{}.
Calculate fields values with C<-frm>, C<-sav>, 
C<-ins>, C<-upd>, C<-del> subs{} 
before insert, update, delete


=item cmdcrt () -> params with default values

Create L<CGI|CGI> params with C<-crt> default values for new record


=item cmddel (?-opt) -> DBI delete record

Delete record in database using 
C<cmdsel>(undef,C<-pxpv>) to fetch previous values
and C<cmdsql>('-del',opt,@_) to update database.
Options: '!s'elect, '!v'ersion.


=item cmdfrm () -> HTML form fields printed

Print HTML form fields for new, view or edit record


=item cmdg -> current generic command

=item cmdg (-command,...) -> is one of commands matched?

Current generic (general, global) transaction command is any C<-cmd> command 
except form exchanges like C<-frm>, C<-ins>, C<-upd>.


=item cmdhtm ()  -> top form HTML printed

Print HTML at the top of the list of records or form of record.
By other words, print C<htmlbar> and C<htmlhid>.


=item cmdins (?-opt) -> DBI insert record

Insert new record into database using C<cmdsql>('-ins',opt,@_).
Options: none


=item cmdlst (?-opt, ?view name, ?where condition) -> list of records HTML printed

Generate and invoke L<DBI|DBI> SQL SELECT according to filter, 
view choosen, query condition given.
Print result set in HTML form.
Option string signs: 
'g'enarate, e'x'ecute, 
'm'inimize display,
'!q'uery params use,
default is '-gx'.

C<cmdlst> call may be used inside C<-cmdfrm> custom sub{} 
to embed view - 
with '-gxm!q' options, 'view' and 'where' args, 
under C<cmd>(C<-sel>) condition:

 set(-cmdfrm =>sub{
     my $s =shift;
     $s->cmdfrm(@_);
     if ($s->cmd('-sel')) {
        $s->cmdlst('-gxm!q','All Versions','gwo.idnv=' .$s->dbi->quote($s->param('id')))
     }
 });


=item cmdqry () -> params with default values

Create L<CGI|CGI> params with C<-qry> default values for query parameters form


=item cmdscan (? 'select...' || list name, ? sub{}) -> stmt handle

=item cmdscan (?-cmdlstOpt, list name, ?cmdlst args, ? sub{}) -> stmt handle

Scan data like cmdlst and eval sub{} given.
Default SQL SELECT is obtained with C<cmdlst>('g');
'-!q' C<cmdlst> option may be used.
If sub{} is omitted, C<DBI> statement handle executed will be returned.
C<cmdsel> and other methods may be called within sub{}.
C<cmdscan> may be used to program data improvements or corrections.


=item cmdscan1 ( cmdscan args ) -> first row

Execute C<cmdscan> and return first row in hash ref or empty value


=item cmdsel (?opt, ?prefix) -> DBI select record into params

Generate and execute L<DBI|DBI> SQL SELECT for single record, 
place data fetched into L<CGI|CGI> params.
Option string signs: 'g'enarate, e'x'ecute, default is 'gx'.
Default params names prefix is empty.


=item cmdsql (?cmd, ?opt, ?pv_prefix, ?nv_prefix) -> DBI SQL executed

Generate and execute edit L<DBI|DBI> SQL command - 
'-ins','-upd', '-del'.
Option string signs: 'g'enarate, e'x'ecute, default is 'gx'.
Default previous values params names prefix is C<-pxpv>.
Default new values params names prefix is empty.


=item cmdupd (?-opt) -> DBI update record

Update record in database using 
C<cmdsel>(undef,C<-pxpv>) to fetch previous values
and C<cmdsql>('-upd',opt,@_) to update database.
Options: '!s'elect, '!v'ersion.


=item cnd -> current transaction command condition string

=item cnd (?-cmd, param => format,...) -> condition string

=item cnd (?-cmd, ?'+', ?'-and|or', ?'+and|or', ?'prefix.', param, ?'fieldname=', format,...) -> condition string

Makes dbi transaction command condition string or returns current condition string.
'-+and|or' prepends or appends 'and' or 'or' to condition string 
generated if it is not empty.
Field values may contain condition expression used for C<-lst> transaction.
Field values are given from CGI C<param>s.
Field formats may be 
empty, quote ("'", '"'), sub, string template with '?' placeholder for value.


=item eval (?dbi connect parameters, ?sub{}) -> DBI transaction

Connect to the database, execute given sub{} in L<DBI|DBI> transaction,
print C<htmlres>, commit or rollback on errors.
Default procedure is C<cmd>('-cmd').
See also C<evaluate>


=item evaluate () -> operation requested by browser

Full L<CGI::Bus::tmsql|CGI/Bus/tmsql> execution.
Like C<eval>, but with starting HTTP, 
starting and ending HTML page.
Uses '-htpgstart' and '-htpfstart' from parent L<CGI::Bus|CGI/Bus>


=item htmlbar (?opt) -> action bar HTML

Generate action bar HTML string dependent on options or C<-opflg>,
current transaction, C<-tbarl> , C<-tbarr>.


=item htmlddlb (widget | false, name, data, field name,...) -> HTML drop-down list box

=item htmlddlb (widget | false, name, data, ?container, ?feed sub, field name,...)

Generate input helper drop-down list box HTML.
May be used in C<-inphtml>.
Optional 'widget' parameter (html, '$_' placeholder, any other string or empty value),
is used only to be placed after some javascript may be generated.
Name is used as the common part of names of the HTML widgets - submits, 
scrolling_list, buttons, which names are generated by appending '_' sign
and suffix.
Data may be array ref with list of values,
hash ref with internal and external values,
list name in C<-lists>,
SQL Select statement,
sub{} to produce above.
Container may be used with list name or SQL Select, it may be [] or {}.
Feed sub{} may be used with container to fill it.
Other arguments are field names to fill with values.
Field names with leading "\t" corresponds to multivalue fields,
leading "\tmsab\t" hints to try Microsoft Address Book before if possible.


=item htmlhid () -> hidden HTML

Generate hidden HTML string.
Hidden HTML contains saved parameters values like 
previous values of fields.


=item htmllst (data, [display cols], {col=>parname}, [href], header, row join, col join, footer) -> Data HTML list

Produce HTML output of data.
Data is SQL SELECT or array ref.
Columns with display columns numbers will be displayed.
Parameter column numbers will be used to form hyperlinks.
Hyperlink hint is the same as C<-href> in C<Views Description>.
Rows and columns joins are HTML delimiters to be inserted between rows
and columns.


=item htmlres () -> transaction result HTML

Generate transaction result HTML string - 
empty or success or error message.


=item htmlself (command, param=>val,...) -> self command hyperlink HTML

=item htmlself (command, param=>val,..., {attributes})

=item htmlself ({attributes}, command, param=>val,...)

Generate self script command hyperlink HTML.
See C<cmd> and C<TRANSACTION SEQUENCE> for commands.
Attributes for 'A' HTML tag may be given as an array or hash ref.


=item pxnme ( prefix => name ) -> prefixed name

=item pxcb ( name ) -> command button name

=item pxsw ( name ) -> special widget name

=item pxpv ( name ) -> previous value name

=item pxqc ( name ) -> query condition name

Prefix field or param name given to construct special name.
Prefixes are C<-pxcb>, C<-pxsw>, C<-pxpv>, C<-pxqc>.


=item qlst () -> queried list name

List (view) name queried or default


=item qparampv (name,...) -> previous value of param

C<qparam> call with C<-pxpv> prefixed param names.


=item qparampx (prefix) -> [field names]

=item qparampx (prefix,...) -> qparam prefixed

Get params names with prefix given or
C<qparam> call with prefixed param names.
Empty prefix means non-prefixed names.


=item qparamsw (name,...) -> special widget value

C<qparam> call with C<-pxsw> prefixed param names.


=back


=head1 VERSION

=over


=head2 26/11/2004

New C<htmlddlb> optional 'field' parameter.


=head2 17/11/2004

New C<-rowsel1a>, C<-rowsel2a>, C<-rowsel3a> slots.


=head2 05/11/2004


=item Changed:

C<-flg> new 'f'etch flag used in C<cmdlst>.


=head2 25/10/2004


=item Changed:

C<cmdlst> binds now database columns to hash ref available from C<-rowlst> and C<-clst>.


=head2 12/10/2004


=item New:

New C<-listurm> C<Views Description> C<SLOTS>.


=head2 25/06/2003


=item Changed:

New C<-listrnm> C<Views Description> slot used in C<cmdlst>, alike common C<-listrnm>


=head2 21/05/2003

=item Fixed:

Excluded 'order by', 'group by', 'limit' clauses from
gant (timeline) chart minimum and maximum margins SQL 'select' command
to escape fields to be defined in 'select' list.


=head2 29/04/2003

=item New:

C<-wherepar> view description slot


=head2 17/04/2003

=item Fixed:

C<acltest> - fixed record read delegation via C<-readsub>:
it processes further only array refs from C<acl> now, 
false values will be ignored in loop, true - returned.


=head2 31/03/2003

=item New:

C<-htaccess> subslot of C<-acd>


=head2 17/11/2002

=item New:

'thead' and 'tbody' HTML tags in C<cmdlst>.


=head2 31/10/2002

=item Changed:

C<-inp> C<Field Description>: 'htmltextarea' URLs display behaviour 
is extended with special URL protocol 'fsurl://' to be translated 
to C<fsurl> value.


=head2 31/08/2002

=item Changed:

C<cmdlst> - fixed parsing of query condition parameters with 
leading '<>=' operators

C<acltest> - field may contain several user names delimited with commas with 
spaces allowed. Regular expression is used instead of 'eq' comparison.

C<aclsel> - sub{}, m/^\$_(regexp|rlike)$/i, m/.*\$_.*/ 
special parameters introduced 
for the field name followed


=head2 05/06/2002

=item New:

C<-refresh> view and common slots


=head2 02/06/2002

=item New:

C<-htmlts>, C<-htmlte>, C<-width> common slots;
C<-width> field slot.

=item Changed:

Timeline view supplied with predefined date margin columns from C<-gant1> and C<-gant2>,
so 'gwo.cgi' changed



=head2 16-17/05/2002

=item New:

C<-rowsav1> and C<-rowsav2> events inside C<cmdsql>.

C<-htmlts>, C<-htmlte>, C<-gant1>, C<-gant2>, C<-htmlg1> view slots.


=head2 05/04/2002 - 06/05/2002

=item New:

MySQL 'LIMIT rows' clause generation



=head2 15/10/2001 - 23/03/2002

=item New:

Implemented and Documented.


=item ToDo:

 - review & test & debug

=item Questions:

 - how to move 'qparampv' and 'qparamsw' methods up to the application object?

=item Issues:

 - Values of SQL statement parameters are all binded inside SQL statement.
 - Access rights encounted with multiple 'field IN(usernames)' expressions
   if there are multiple fields with usernames. SQL may be too big and slow.
 - Multiple columns cannot be SQL Selected into multiple rows.
   Such views (lists) should be implemented with '-dsub' subs.
   F.e., list of user names in multiple user name fields.
 - Conditions like 'value IN (fields)' may be implemented only with WHERE 
   query condition field
 - File attachments should be published via some access control
   scripts if application (password, not web server) authentication is used.


=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Andrew V Makarow <makarow at mail.com>

=cut
