=head1 NAME

CGI::Bus::udata - User Data Store


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use CGI::Bus;
 $s =CGI::Bus->new();
 $s->udata->param

=head1 DESCRIPTION


This module is a user data store.
Uses filesystem, L<CGI::Bus::fut|CGI/Bus/fut>, L<CGI::Bus::file|CGI/Bus/file>.
See L<CGI::Bus::Base|CGI/Bus/Base> for inherited slots and methods.


=head1 SLOTS

=over


=item -data

User data hash ref.
Should be used via C<param> calls.


=item -dataj

User data joined hash ref.
Should be used via C<paramj> calls.


=item -file

User data file L<CGI::Bus::file|CGI/Bus/file> object.
Used internally.


=item -ksplit

Subdirectories size to split key value (username) to, 
or splitter sub{}.
0 - do not split, default.


=item -path

Path to users directories.
Default is tpath('udata')



=back

=head1 METHODS

The most commonly used are C<param>, C<paramj>, C<store>.


=over


=item keyfile (key, ?filename) -> key file object

Returns L<CGI::Bus::file|CGI/Bus/file> object for
key (username) given.


=item keypath (key, ?filename) -> key filesystem path

Filesystem path for key (username) given.


=item load () -> self

Load current user data with L<CGI::Bus::file|CGI/Bus/file>
C<dumpload> call.
Automatically called within C<param> and C<paramj> calls if needed.


=item param () -> user data hash ref

=item param (slot) -> value

=item param (slot => value,...) -> self

Access to user data hash ref.
Automatically calls C<load> if needed.


=item paramj () -> user data joined hash ref

=item paramj (slot) -> value

Like C<param> calls, 
but for joined data of user and groups this user belongs to.


=item store () -> self

=item store (slot => value,...) -> self

Store current user data with L<CGI::Bus::file|CGI/Bus/file>
C<dumpstore> call


=item uglist () -> [users and groups list]

Generate list of users and groups data exists for.
Is used by L<CGI::Bus::uauth|CGI/Bus/uauth> when
application user authentication


=item unload () -> self

Unload current user data, 
init object buffer to automatically load data if needed



=back


=head1 VERSION

=over

=head2 01/01/2002 - 31/01/2002

=item New:

Implemented and Documented.


=item ToDo:

Review.

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Andrew V Makarow <makarow at mail.com>

=cut
