=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::C14N - XML Canonicalization

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $schema = XML::Compile::Cache->new(...);
 my $c14n   = XML::Compile::C14N->new(schema => $schema);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

XML canonicalization is used to enforce an explicit formatting style
on de XML documents. It is required to have a reproducable output when,
for instance, digital signatures gets applied to parts of the document.

C14N currently has seen three versions: 1.0, 1.1, and 2.0.  Versions 1.*
need [C14N-EXC] version 1.0.  There is no support for version 2.0 in
L<XML::LibXML> yet, so also not provided by this module.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item XML::Compile::C14N-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

There can be more than one C14N object active in your program.

 -Option --Default
  for      undef
  schema   undef
  version  '1.1'

=over 2

=item for => METHOD

[0.92] When a canonicallization METHOD is provided, that will be used to
automatically detect the C14N version to be loaded.

=item schema => L<XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache> object

Add the C14N extension information to the provided schema.  If not used,
you have to call L<loadSchemas()|XML::Compile::C14N/"Internals"> before compiling readers and writers.

=item version => STRING

Explicitly state which version C14N needs to be used.  C14N2 is not
yet supported.  If not specified, it is first attempted to derive the
version from the 'for' option.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schema>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<version>()

Returns the version number.

=back

=head2 Handling

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<normalize>($type, $node, %options)

The $type is one of the C14* constants defined in L<XML::Compile::C14N::Util|XML::Compile::C14N::Util>.  The $node is an XML::LibXML::Element.  Returned is a normalized
byte-sequence, for instance to be signed.

 -Option     --Default
  context      <created from NODE if needed>
  prefix_list  []
  xpath        undef

=over 2

=item context => XML::LibXML::XPathContext object

=item prefix_list => ARRAY

Then prefixes which are to be included in normalization, only used in
excludeNamespaces (EXC) normalizations.

=item xpath => EXPRESSION

Only normalize a subset of the document.

=back

=back

=head2 Internals

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<loadSchemas>($schema)

Load the C14N schema to the global $schema, which must extend
L<XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache>.

This method will be called when you provide a value for L<new(schema)|XML::Compile::C14N/"Constructors">.
Otherwise, you need to call this when the global $schema is known in your
program.

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head2 References

=over 4

=item [C14N-10] Canonical XML Version 1.0

F<http://www.w3.org/TR/xml-c14n>, 15 March 2001

=item [C14N-EXC] Exclusive XML Canonicalization Version 1.0

F<http://www.w3.org/TR/xml-exc-c14n/>, 18 July 2002

=item [C14N-11] Canonical XML Version 1.1

F<http://www.w3.org/TR/xml-c14n11/>, 2 May 2008

=item [C14N-20] Canonical XML Version 2.0

F<http://www.w3.org/TR/xml-c14n2/>, 24 January 2012

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-C14N distribution version 0.95,
built on January 15, 2020. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2011-2020 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

