
=head1 NAME

Nes - A powerful template system for HTML and the Web.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Nes;
    my $nes = Nes::Singleton->new('template.nhtml');

    my $nes_tags = {};
    $nes_tags->{'var_hello'} = 'Hello World!';

    $nes->out(%$nes_tag);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Nes (No Embedded Source) a system for separating Perl executable code and 
the representation of the data generated in HTML using Tags are replaced 
with variables created in Perl.

Nes can do for you?
With Nes can do the same or more than any other template system, only 
much faster and easier. The time is the most valuable resource. 

With Nes you can NOT:

- Embed Perl code in the template.

- Modify aplication data from the template.

- Emulating an interpreter or language in the template.

To do these things, there is already a system called PHP. :-)

=head2 Some Nes features

=over 2

=item Simplicity

Nes has only ten Tags to include in the HTML, and a single object with a 
single method to instantiate in Perl. You can start working with Nes in 
hours, not weeks or months as in other systems.

=item Security

Transparent management of code injection and cross-site scripting. Plugins 
for creating secure forms, Forms and Captcha.

=item Objects

Object-oriented paradigm which enables you to reuse your code or use 
third-party libraries. Objects are the main feature that makes Nes 
different from other systems. 

=item HTML oriented

Nes is oriented at HTML and not the Perl code. Nes exported very few Perl 
functions, also to simplify, Nes Objects may also contain HTML, Javascript, 
CSS, Ajax, etc.. even PHP, or trail mix.

=item Wrapper

Full support of PHP Wrapper. Nes as Wrapper can use to add functionality 
to other types as HTML, or PHP to exchange information. 

=item ModPerl

Support for mod_perl.

=item Sessions

Creating and managing user sessions.

=item Plugins

You can add functionality using plugins to Nes, you can create your own or 
use by third parties. 

=item PHP and other

Insert parts of PHP code in Nes only have to type a tag, Nes allow the 
inclusion in your script templates in other languages other than Perl 
without writing a single line of Perl code. Moreover, most of them 
can contain Tags Nes. 

=item SQL

You can insert SQL SELECT statements in your templates directly.

=item .nes.cfg configuration files

Nes provides configuration files per directory.

=back

=head2 Nes Perl script Sample

    use Nes;
    my = Nes::Singleton->new('template.nhtml');

    my $nes_tags = {};
    $nes_tags->{'var_hello'} = 'Hello World!';

    $nes->out(%$nes_tag);  

=head2 Nes template Sample

    {: NES 1.0 ('hello.cgi') :}
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>Nes Hello World</title>
      </head>
      <body>
        <b>{: $ var_hello :}</b>
      </body>
    </html>

=head2 More samples

See L<Nes::Tutorial>

Sample to use Nes; L<http://nes.sourceforge.net/>

=head1 CONFIGURATION

Nes requires configuration of you cgi-bin and .htaccess for 
directory of the Nes templates.

To active and configure Nes use utility: set_nes_site

=head2 Configured

Active Nes in /usr/lib/cgi-bin:

    set_nes_site --cgi_dir=/usr/lib/cgi-bin

Configure Nes for directory /var/www/myweb:

    set_nes_site --dir_cfg=/var/www/myweb

Configure Nes for all site:

    set_nes_site --dir_cfg=/var/www  

Install hello world and test examples in /var/www/test_nes:

    set_nes_site --from_exam=hello_nes --to_exam=/var/www/test_nes

More help:

    set_nes_site --help

* Change /usr/lib/cgi-bin and /var/www for you particular path

=head2 Configured locally

For configured Nes locally find you path to Nes.pm and add in 
iprefix in cgi_dir and from_exam options.

Active Nes in /usr/lib/cgi-bin:

    set_nes_site --cgi_dir=/usr/lib/cgi-bin --iprefix=/home/USER/path-to-Nes

More help:

    set_nes_site --help    

* Change /usr/lib/cgi-bin and /home/USER/path-to-Nes for you particular path

=head2 Nes templates .htaccess configuration

cgi_dir option of the set_nes_site utility, create a file like this:

    # ---------- Nes configuration --------------
    # exec cgis
    Options +ExecCGI
    AddHandler cgi-script .cgi .pl

    # Nes nhtml files
    AddHandler perl-nes .nhtml
    AddHandler perl-nes .nhtm

    # nes dispatcher
    Action perl-nes /cgi-bin/nes/dispatch.cgi

    # protected Nes configuration and other files
    <FilesMatch \.(nsql|nes.cfg)$>
      order deny,allow
      deny from all
    </FilesMatch>
    #---------------------------------------------

=head1 HTML oriented

Usually the procedure for using a template would be:

    Template->new('template');

The Perl script calls the template.

In Nes, template calls to Perl script:

    {: NES 1.0 ('script.pl') :}
    <html>
    ...

Usually the procedure for output a template would be:

    Template->out;

The Perl script handles the output.

In Nes, template handles the output.

Usually must call many methods to manage the template.

In Nes, no need to call more than one or two methods, and in many 
cases none:

    {: NES 1.0 none :}
    { # no Perl script requires :}
    <html>
    ...

=head1 Very easy to use

Extremely simple, in most cases you just need to do this:

    use Nes;
    my $nes = Nes::Singleton->new('template.nhtml');
    my %tags;

    # the things that make your script...
    ...

    # set variables for output
    $tags{'var_hello'} = 'Hello World!';

    # the things that make your script...
    ...

    # send variables to Nes
    $nes->out(%$nes_tag);

And in case you want to use user session? 

Too. Only in special cases need access Nes::Singleton,
consider this example:

    {: NES 1.0 ('index.cgi') :}
    <html>
        ...
        {: ~ ( ! *nes_session_ok )
            {: include ('user_register.nhtml') :}
        :}
        ...
    </html>

The perl script required is:

    none! :-) easy?

For this case we can rewrite the template as follows:

    {: NES 1.0 none :}
    <html>
        ...
        {: ~ ( ! *nes_session_ok )
            {: include ('user_register.nhtml') :}
        :}
        ...
    </html>

So to create the session:

    {: NES 1.0 none :}
    <html>
        ...
        {: ~ ( $login_ok )
          {: include ( '{: * cfg_obj_top_dir :}/session.nhtml',
                       'create',  
                       '{: * q_user :}',
                       '30m'
                     )
          :}
        :}
        ...
    </html>

* In this example we assumed that there is a form that gives value 
{: * q_user :} or/and an object that defines Nes {: $ login_ok :}

Nes is oriented at HTML and not the Perl code.

See: L<Nes::Singleton>

=head1 Syntax Nes

=head2 Blocks

Nes instructions consist of blocks enclosed in braces, the keys to open and 
close a block are respectively:

    {: and :}

=head2 Tags    

The Tags are the word or symbol that precedes the keys to open the block. 
Similar to the HTML Tags. The Tag Nes syntax is:

    {: TAG [(parameters)] [HTML] :}

TAG can be:

    #       Comment
    $       Variable
    *       Environment variable
    ~       Expression
    sql     SQL SELECT
    @       Data table
    @$      Field in a data table
    include include a file
    NES     Nes
    &       Plugin

=head2 Syntax

It allows abbreviated as follows:

    {: $ ( 'variable' ) :}
    {: $ ( variable ) :}
    {: $ variable :}
    {: $variable :}

The four forms have the same meaning.

Parentheses are not required provided there are no spaces between the parameters:

    {: ~ $variable <p> HTML code </p> :}                   <- * unnecessary 
    {: ~ ($ variable1 == $ variable2) <p> HTML code </p> :} <- * required 

Use quotation marks and commas in the parameters:

    {: include ('template.nhtml',
                'The \'Title\'',
                'one, two and three'
               ) 
    :}

    {: include ('{: * cfg_obj_top_dir :}/Nes/form/secure_login.nhtml',
                "
                  script_handler   => 'my_script_handler.pl',
                  function_handler => 'my_function_handler',
                  form_name        => 'my_form_1',
                "
               )         
    :}    

All Tags except NES may occupy several lines:

    {: #
        If variable returns true 
        you see "HTML code"
    :}
    {: ~ ( $ variable ) 
            <p>HTML code</p>
    :}

=head1 TAGS

=head2 # Comment

    {: # comment :}

Block is removed and not displayed in the HTML output.

    {: NES 1.0 none :}
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>Nes sample</title>
      </head>
      <body>
        {: # this is a comment :}
      </body>
    </html>

=head2 $ Variable

    {: $ variable :}

The block is replaced by the value of "variable" that must have been 
previously defined in our Perl script, of not being the block is replaced 
by an empty string.

template.nhtml:

    {: NES 1.0 ('script.pl') :}
    <html>
      <head>
        <title>Nes sample</title>
      </head>
      <body>
        <b>{: $ var_name :}</b>
      </body>
    </html>

script.pl:

    use Nes;

    my $nes = Nes::Singleton->new('template.nhtml');
    my $nes_tags = {};

    $nes_tags->{'var_name'} = 'Hello!';

    $nes->out(%$nes_tags);
   

=head2 * Environment variable

    {: * environment_variable :}

The block is replaced by the value of environment_variable which is an 
environment variable Nes.

Nes defined all CGI environment as:

    {: * env_SERVER_NAME :} 
    {: * env_DOCUMENT_ROOT :} 
    etc...

All parameters passed in the GET and POST methods, add 'q_' at the 
beginning of the name of the variable:

    {: * q_varname :}

The varibles in the configuration file as:

    {: * cfg_varname :}

Other:

Current Directory:

    {: * nes_this_dir :}

Current file:

    {: * nes_this_file :}

NES version:

    {: * nes_ver :}

Language:

    {: * nes_accept_language :}

=head2 ~ Expression

    {: ~ (expression) HTML :}

The block is replaced by "HTML" if expression is true. Expression can be any 
valid Perl expression, including Perl regular expressions, the variable can only
be a $ variable, environment *, or a literal:

    {: ~ ( $ variable =~ /hello/ ) <p>variable greets us</p> :}
    {: ~ ( * variable ) <p>variable is defined</p> :}
    {: ~ ( ! * variable ) <p>variable is not defined</p> :}

The expressions that result in the assignment of a variable, return true or 
false but the assignment has no effect:

    {: ~ ( $ variable = 1 ) <p>value does not change</p> :}

=head2 @  Data table

    {: @ (table) HTML :}

The block is replaced and is repeated by "HTML" as many times as records have 
Table. We refer to each field in each record with:    

    {: @$ table.field :}

Table must be defined in our Perl script as an array of hashes reference.

In script.pl:

    my $table = [ 
                  { 
                    name   => 'one',
                    email  => 'one@example.com',
                  },
                  { 
                    name   => 'two',
                    email  => 'two@example.com',
                  },
                  { 
                    name   => 'three',
                    email  => 'three@example.com',
                  }                                    
                ];

    $tag{'users'} = $table;

In template.nhtml:

    <table>
    {: @ users
      <tr>
        <td> {: @$ users.name  :} </td>
        <td> {: @$ users.email :} </td>
      </tr>
    :}
    </table>    

=head2 @$ Field

    {: @$ table.field :}

Where "field" is the name of the field in the table. {: @$ table.field :} is 
a property of {: @ (table) HTML :} or {: sql (SQL SELECT) HTML :}

=head2 sql SQL SELECT

    {: sql (SQL SELECT) HTML :}

The block is replaced and is repeated by "HTML" for each record returned by 
the query. The operation is similar to Tag @. The SQL statement must begin 
with SELECT.

It reads the configuration (.nes.cfg) the following variables to access 
the database:

    DB_base    = base_name
    DB_user    = user
    DB_pass    = password
    DB_driver  = mysql      
    DB_host    = localhost 
    DB_port    = 3306      

Sample:

    <table>
    {: sql (
              'SELECT * FROM `table` 
                        WHERE 1 
                        LIMIT 5;'
           )
      <tr>
        <td> {: @$ table.name  :} </td>
        <td> {: @$ table.email :} </td>
      </tr>
    :}
    </table>

=head2 include Include a file

    {: include ('file') :}

The block is replaced by the file "file", file can be a nhtml, nsql, html, 
php, sh, text, perl, etc..

You can send parameters to the included file:

    {: include ('file.nhtml','param', ... ) :}

These will be received in the file nHtml environment variables as:

    q_filename_param_number
    
    {: * q_file_param_1 :}

And in the Perl script with similar notation, excluding 'q_' in the 
query:

    use Nes;
    my $nes = Nes::Singleton->new('file.nhtml');
    
    my $q = $nes->{'query'}->{'q'};
    my $param = $q->{'file_param_1'};

The included file inherits the parent tags

=head2 NES Nes

    {: NES ver ('file') :}

It is similar to a line of files unix shell (#!/usr/bin/...) indicating that 
script must be run.

In the absence of this line is treated as HTML file (type text/html) without 
replacing any of Tags. If you do not need any Perl script but you want the file 
to be treated as replacement Tag Nes:

    {: NES 1.0 ('') :}

Or explicitly stating 'none' to avoid any suggestion that this is an error 
or oversight:

    {: NES 1.0 ('none') :}

For clarity we recommend this:

    {: NES 1.0 none :}

=head2 & Plugin

    {: & tag (param...) :}

Reserved for use by plugins.

=head1 Nes Object

Nes Objects are bits of code, NES, HTML, JavaScript, Perl... or a mixture. 
Any script can become an object Nes, so it is not necessary to rewrite the code. 

We call an object with include: 

    {: include ( 'object.nhtml', [ parameter list ] ) :}

The objects may reside in any directory. A simple example is the object 
location.nhtml that redirects to another page: 

    {: include ( '{: * cfg_obj_top_dir :}/location.nhtml', 
                 'http://example.com/page.nhtml',
                 '301 Moved Permanently'
               ) 
    :}

Nes Objects offers many opportunities for code reuse. Nes The idea is to have a 
huge library of objects, so you only have to write code for individual cases, 
disposing of objects commonly used for the login, sessions, etc.. work to 
create a Web with Nes will virtually mount templates and Web design.

=head2 Create Object

With Nes can not create objects, you can invoke/include objects in your 
templates, but the object must be created in Perl, HTML, JavaScript, etc.. Or a 
mixture of all with a template Nes or not.

As an example we have encapsulated part of LWP in an Nes Object:

    {: include ('{: * cfg_obj_top_dir :}/lwp.nhtml',
               URL,
               extrac,  {: # default: content      |
                                      status       |
                                      Content-Type |
                                      title        |
                                      head         |
                                      body         |
                                      star:-:end   | 
                                      :-:star:-:end:-:
                         :}
               method,   {: # default: GET | POST :}
               query,    {: # query: 'name=Jose&email=jose@sample.com' :}
               charset,  {: # default: no change | ISO | UTF-8 :}
               useragent {: # default: Nes/0.8  :}
               email     {: # user agent email. default: $ENV{'SERVER_ADMIN'} :}
             ) 
    :}
    
    extrac:
    <tag>:-:</tag>       Return tag content without tags: '<tag></tag>'
    :-:<tag>:-:</tag>:-: Return tag content and include tags: '<tag></tag>'
    
    Defined:
    {: $ status :}        # Status response
    {: $ request :}       # request send
    {: $ Content-Type :}  # Content type
    {: $ content :}       # All HTML content
    {: $ title :}         # Title Tag content
    {: $ head :}          # Head Tag content
    {: $ body :}          # Body Tag content
    {: $ extrac :}        # extrac return value

To test our object we have created a page test_page.html of which we can 
extract the "Title" as follows:

    {:  include ('{: * cfg_obj_top_dir :}/lwp.nhtml',
                 'http://nes.sourceforge.net/miniblog/es/test_page.html',
                 title
                ) 
    :}

Out:

    Test Page - Sample to use Nes;

We created our object so we can directly call the Perl script without the 
template nhtml:

    {:  include ('{: * cfg_obj_top_dir :}/lwp.pl',
                 'http://nes.sourceforge.net/miniblog/es/test_page.html',
                 title
                ) 
    :}

Out:

    Test Page - Sample to use Nes;

We may also create a new template for this Perl script. lwp.pl defines the 
following Nes Tags:

    {: $ status :}        # Status response
    {: $ request :}       # request send
    {: $ Content-Type :}  # Content type
    {: $ content :}       # All HTML content
    {: $ title :}         # Title Tag content
    {: $ head :}          # Head Tag content
    {: $ body :}          # Body Tag content
    {: $ extrac :}        # extrac return value

Then to create a small one-page report:

    {: NES 1.0 ('./lwp.pl') :}
    Status:<br>
    {: $ status :}<br>
    Title:<br>
    {: $ title :}<br>
    Content type:<br>
    {: $ Content-Type :}<br>
    Head:<br>
    {: $ head :}<br>
    Extrac:<br>
    {: $ extrac,yes_html :}

Name as lwp_custom.nhtml, store it in the obj directory, and finally we can 
invoke like this:

    {: include ('{: * cfg_obj_top_dir :}/lwp_custom.nhtml',
                'http://nes.sourceforge.net/miniblog/es/test_page.html'
                'title'
               ) 
    :} 

Out:

    Status:
    200 OK 
    Title:
    Test Page - Sample to use Nes;
    Content type:
    text/html
    Head:
    <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html;charset=ISO-8859-1" /> 
    <title>Test Page - Sample to use Nes;</title>
    Extrac:
    Test Page - Sample to use Nes;

See: L<Nes::Obj::secure_login>, L<Nes::Obj::multi_step>

=head1 HTTP-headers

With the HTTP-headers variable we have to define in our Perl script:

    use Nes;
    my $nes      = Nes::Singleton->new('template.nhtml');
    my $nes_tags = {};

    $nes_tags->{'HTTP-headers'} = "Content-type: text/html\n\n";

    $nes->out(%$nes_tags);

We can control the headers of the HTML output.

When Nes verifies that HTTP-headers has value, prints its content and not
the headers by default. Should be included immediately after the NES Tag:

    {: NES 1.0 ('file.pl') :}
    {: $ HTTP-headers :}

If you define HTTP-headers and then not included with 
{: $ HTTP-headers :} we get an error. * This is not required from version 1.03.

You can use any module of CPAN to create the HTTP headers. The difference is 
that you can not send them directly to the output, assign it to the 
variable {'HTTP-headers'}

    use Nes;
    use CGI ':standard';

    my $nes  = Nes::Singleton->new('template.nhtml');
    my $cgi  = CGI->new();
    my %tags = {};

    print $cgi->header('text/html');                      <- It will not work
    $tags->{'HTTP-headers'} = $cgi->header('text/html');  <- Ok

    $nes->out(%tags);

=head1 Security

=head2 Code Injection and Cross-site scripting

Nes transparently manages the removal of malicious code variables.

By default is filtered HTML and the tags Nes all environment variables 
(*) from forms.

By default is filtered HTML and the tags of all the variables Nes ($).

By default is filtered HTML and the tags Nes all the variables of Tables 
and SQL (@$).

By default HTML is allowed <br> HTML Tag.

By default, calls DBI::quote on all variables that are part of a SELECT 
statement in sql Tag

=head2 Change the default behavior

The types of variables x, $ y @$ accept parameters to change this behavior:

    {: $  ('var','yes_html','no_sql') :}
    {: *  ('q_var','yes_html','no_sql') :}
    {: @$ ('table.field','yes_html','no_sql') :}

We passed as parameters the filtering options you want, and are:

    no_sql   # not allow SQL, call DBI::quote
    no_html  # not allow Tag HTML
    no_br    # not allow Tag HTML <br>
    no_nes   # not allow Tag Nes {: :}
    yes_sql  # allow SQL, not DBI::quote filter 
    yes_html # allow all Tags HTML
    yes_br   # allow Tag HTML <br>
    yes_nes  # allow Tag Nes {: :}

Allow specific HTML tags ( yes_tag_TAG ):

    yes_tag_B      # allow Tag HTML <B></B>
    yes_tag_STRONG # allow Tag HTML <strong></strong>
    ...

Format:

    {: $  ('var',[list of options in any order]) :}

=head2 Nes Tags

If we make a variable 'yes_nes' will not get run code that contains the
variable. For safety, you can not execute code from a Nes variable. 
The effect of 'no_nes' is that the tags are visible, and 'yes_nes' 
is disappearing.

=head2 .nes.cfg

We must prevent access to these files in .htaccess:

     <FilesMatch \.nes.cfg$>
        order deny,allow
        deny from all
     </FilesMatch>

=head2 PHP

Nes filters the Nes Tags of the forms in PHP include or Wrapper, but 
NOT the HTML and SQL. It is assumed that the PHP script should 
incorporate these filters. 

=head1 Sessions

We can managing user sessions with Objects or Perl script.

=head2 Object session.nhtml

Managing user sessions with the object session.nhtml:

  {: include ( '{: * cfg_obj_top_dir :}/session.nhtml',
               action,  {: # default: get | create | del :}
               user,    {: # if 'get' action: user :}
               expire   {: # if 'get' action: expire :}
  :}

  Expire format:
    time suffix: s: seconds, m: minutes h: hours d: days, M: months, y: years
    30s = 30 seconds
    12h = 12 hours
    2y  = 2 years
    ...

=head2 Sessions in Perl script

See: L<Nes::Singleton>

=head2 Nes Environment Variables

    # Session is open
    {: * nes_session_ok :}
    
    # User name session
    {: * nes_session_user :}

=head1 SEE

L<Nes::Tutorial>, L<Nes::Singleton>, L<Nes::nes.cfg>

=head1 BUGS



=head1 TODO



=head1 AUTHOR

Skriptke: Enrique Castañón

=head1 VERSION

Version 1.03 April 2010

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) Enrique F. Castanon Barbero. All rights reserved.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms and conditions as
GNU Public License (GPL).

This means that you can, at your option, redistribute it and/or 
modify it under either the terms the GNU Public License (GPL), 
or under the Perl Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/

=head1 DISCLAIMER

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Use of this software in any way or in any form, source or binary,
is not allowed in any country which prohibits disclaimers of any
implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular
purpose or any disclaimers of a similar nature.

IN NO EVENT SHALL I BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,  OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, LOST PROFITS) EVEN IF I HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Template::Toolkit>, L<HTML::Template>, L<HTML::Mason>, 
L<HCKit::Template>, L<Catalyst>, L<CGI::Framework>, 
L<CGI::Application>, L<CGI::Application::Framework>, L<mod_perl>, 
Sample to use Nes; L<http://nes.sourceforge.net/>

=cut

