=head1 NAME

Net::CLI::Interact::Manual::Phrasebook - List of Supported CLIs

=head1 INTRODUCTION

The bundled phrasebook includes support for a variety of network device CLIs.
Many were contributed by users of the module. If you set up a new CLI
dictionary, please consider contributing it back! The phrasebook specification
is given in L<Net::CLI::Interact::Phrasebook>.

For each supported CLI, there is a name which must be passed in the
C<personality> option to L<Net::CLI::Interact>'s C<new()> method; this is the
same as the directory containing the phrasebook file.

After that, you can call the included Macros, and the module will use the
included Prompt to match the current state of the CLI. More information is
available in the L<Tutorial|Net::CLI::Interact::Manual::Tutorial> and
L<Cookbook|Net::CLI::Interact::Manual::Cookbook>.

=head1 PERSONALITIES

See the files themselves at the following link for full details:
L<https://github.com/ollyg/Net-CLI-Interact/tree/master/lib/Net/CLI/Interact/phrasebook>.

=over 4

=item * ASA

=item * Avaya

=item * Bash

=item * CatOS

=item * Cisco (generic)

=item * Csh

=item * ExtremeOS

=item * F5

=item * Fortinet

=item * Foundry / Brocade

Before connecting to the device you probably want to set the output separator
to be:

 $nci->transport->ors("\r\n");

For users of L<Net::Appliance::Session> this should be:

 $session_obj->nci->transport->ors("\r\n");

=item * FWSM

=item * FWSM 3

=item * HP

=item * IOS

=item * JunOS

=item * Mikrotik

=item * Nortel

=item * OVMCLI

=item * PIXOS

=item * PIXOS 7

=item * Qnap

=item * RedBack

=item * ScreenOS

=item * WLC

=item * Zyxel

=back

=head1 SUPPORTING A NEW DEVICE

In order to support a new device, particularly for the
L<Net::Appliance::Session> module, there is a basic set of prompts and macros
you must create.

=head2 Required Prompts

With SSH, no C<user> prompt is required, but for other transports you should
include a prompt named C<user> which matches the "C<Username:>" prompt
presented by the device.

 # example only!
 prompt user
     match /[Uu]sername/

With all transports you must provide a C<pass> prompt which matches the
"C<password:>" prompt presented by the device.

 # example only!
 prompt pass
     match /[Pp]assword: ?$/

The last essential prompt is of course a simple command line prompt match, and
this should be named C<generic>.

 # example only!
 prompt generic
     match /> ?$/

=head2 Desirable Prompt and Macros

To cleanly disconnect from your device session, you might want to include a
macro named C<disconnect> with the relevant command. Note there is no need for
a C<match> statement in this macro, as the device should have detached!

 # example only!
 macro disconnect
     send exit

For paging support, include either only a C<prompt> macro, or two macros named
C<enable_paging> and C<disable_paging>, depending on what the device requires.
In all cases, there must be one substitution ("C<%s>") which is where the
number of page lines will be inserted into the command.

 # example only!
 macro paging
     send terminal length %s

For privileged mode (super-user) support, include a prompt named C<privileged>
first, and then include macros named C<begin_privileged> and C<end_privileged>
to enter and leave the mode, respectively. Note that both macros will require
explicit match statements, because the prompt encountered I<after> issuing the
command will be different to that encountered before.

 # example only!
 prompt privileged
     match /# ?$/
 
 macro begin_privileged
     send enable
     match user or pass or privileged
 
 macro end_privileged
     send disable
     match generic

Similarly for configure mode, include a prompt named C<configure> first, and
then include macros named C<begin_configure> and C<end_configure> to enter and
leave the mode, respectively. Note that both macros will require explicit
match statements, because the prompt encountered I<after> issuing the command
will be different to that encountered before.

 # example only!
 prompt configure
     match /\(config[^)]*\)# ?$/
 
 macro begin_configure
     send configure terminal
     match configure
 
 macro end_configure
     send exit
     match privileged

=cut
