=pod

=begin readme text

AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect
==========================

=end readme

=for readme stop

=head1 NAME

AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect - RPC::ExtDirect gateway for AnyEvent::HTTPD

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use RPC::ExtDirect::Config;
    use AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect;
    
    # Ext.Direct Action packages go here
    use My::Server::Foo;
    use My::Server::Bar;
    
    my $config = RPC::ExtDirect::Config->new(
        api_path    => '/api',
        router_path => '/router',
        poll_path   => '/events',
    );
    
    my $httpd = AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect->new( config => $config );
    
    $httpd->run;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=for readme continue

This module provides an L<RPC::ExtDirect> gateway implementation for
L<AnyEvent::HTTPD>, a simple lightweight event based web server.
Unlike other gateways like L<Plack::Middleware::ExtDirect> or
L<CGI::ExtDirect>, this module is in fact more of an application
server than just a plugin. You can think of it as L<Plack> framework
and L<Plack::Middleware::ExtDirect> combined into one package.

That said, the asynchronous event based nature of AnyEvent::HTTPD
allows using it both as a standalone application server, and as a part
of a larger program that may do other things besides serving Ext.Direct
or plain HTTP requests. See L</"Non-blocking server"> below.

If you are not familiar with Ext.Direct, more information can be found
in L<RPC::ExtDirect::Intro>.

=for readme stop

=head1 USAGE

=head2 Configuration

To configure an AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect instance, you will need to
create an instance of L<RPC::ExtDirect::Config> with all required
options set, and pass it to AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect
L<constructor|/new> to be used. This step is optional; by default the
Config instance in the
L<global API instance|RPC::ExtDirect::API/"GLOBAL API TREE INSTANCE">
will be used instead.

Refer to L<RPC::ExtDirect::Config/OPTIONS> for the list of
configuration options and their default values.

=head2 Entry points

AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect has three main entry points: the
L<API|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/API> generator, the
L<Router|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/Router>, and the
L<Event Provider|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Event Provider">. Each of
these has to be assigned a unique server side URI that clients will
GET/POST requests to. The API generator URI is usually hardcoded in
the client; the Router and Event Provider URIs are advertised as a
part of the L<API declaration|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"API declaration">
provided by the API generator.

The entry point URIs are configured with the
L<api_path|RPC::ExtDirect::Config/api_path>,
L<router_path|RPC::ExtDirect::Config/router_path>, and
L<poll_path|RPC::ExtDirect::Config/poll_path> Config options as shown
in the L</SYNOPSIS>. These configuration options have default values
that will work out of box; refer to L<RPC::ExtDirect::Config> for
details.

=head2 Non-blocking server

AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect can be used not only as a standalone event
based application server, but also as an embedded Ext.Direct engine
in a larger event based application. This is important and is worth
repeating: the non-blocking server approach will only work if your
application is event based, adhering to L<AnyEvent> conventions!

To use AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect as a non-blocking server, create
an instance of it, prime it by calling L</set_callbacks>, and
save a reference to it:

    my $httpd = AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect->new( config => $config );
    $httpd->set_callbacks( ... );

Saving a reference to the server instance is important; if you don't
save it, the server instance will be destroyed soon after creation,
and you will spend a lot of time trying to figure out why it does
not accept requests. So, this will B<not> work as expected:

    AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect->new( ... )->set_callbacks( ... );

Same goes for other AnyEvent(ish) things you may want to create in
your application, including file handle read, timed callbacks, etc.

=head1 CAVEATS

The considerations below are specific to AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect:

=head2 Host names vs IP addresses

L<AnyEvent::HTTPD> constructor does not perform host name lookup
and will break if you pass in a host name string instead of IP
address. The only exception is C<localhost> that will be substituted
with C<127.0.0.1> loopback address.

=head2 Environment objects

For this gateway, the environment object is based on
L<AnyEvent::HTTPD::Request>. While it does provide the methods described
in L<RPC::ExtDirect/"ENVIRONMENT OBJECTS">, behavior of these methods
can be slightly different from other environments.

For example, C<< $env->http() >> in L<CGI::ExtDirect> will return
the list of both environment variables and HTTP headers in upper case,
while the same C<< $env->http() >> in AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect
application will return only HTTP headers, lowercased.

To avoid potential problems, always find the actual header name
first and then use it:

    use List::Util qw/ first /;
    
    my ($header) = first { /^Content[-_]Type$/i } $env->http();
    my $value    = $env->http($header) if $header;
    
    ...

=head1 OBJECT INTERFACE

AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect provides several public methods:

=over 4

=item C<new>

Constructor. Returns a new AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect object. Accepts
named arguments in a hash or hashref.

Parameters:

=over 8

=item C<api>

Optional L<RPC::ExtDirect::API> instance to be used instead of the
default L<global API tree|RPC::ExtDirect::API/"GLOBAL API TREE INSTANCE">.

=item C<config>

Optional L<RPC::ExtDirect::Config> instance to be used. If not provided,
the Config instance in the API object (either default or passed in L</api>
parameter) will be used.

=item C<router_class_anyevent>

Class name to be used instead of the default L<RPC::ExtDirect::Router>
when instantiating Router objects in AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect
environment.

=item C<eventprovider_class_anyevent>

Class name to be used instead of the default
L<RPC::ExtDirect::EventProvider> when instantiating EventProvider
objects in AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect environment.

=item other

Any other parameter will be passed on to the underlying
L<AnyEvent::HTTPD> constructor.

=back

=item C<set_callbacks>

Instance method. Registers Ext.Direct handlers for API generator,
Router, and Event Provider with the AnyEvent::HTTPD transport
mechanism, effectively "priming" the server instance without
entering a blocking wait. Accepts named arguments in a hash.

This method will be called internally by L</run> so you do not
need to call it explicitly unless you want to use a non-blocking
server option. See L</"Non-blocking server"> section above.

Parameters:

=over 8

=item C<api_path>

URI on which the API generator should listen to service discovery
requests from the clients. Defaults to server Config option of
the same name; this parameter mainly exists for testing overrides.

=item C<router_path>

URI on which the Router should listen to Ext.Direct Method
invocation requests. Defaults to server Config option of the same
name; this parameter mainly exists for testing overrides.

=item C<poll_path>

URI on which the Event Provider should listen to Ext.Direct event
polling requests. Defaults to server Config option of the same
name; this parameter mainly exists for testing overrides.

=back

=item C<run>

Instance method. Sets the Ext.Direct callbacks with default Config
URIs (see L</set_callbacks>), and enters a blocking wait by
calling underlying AnyEvent::HTTPD's C<run> method.

This method does not accept arguments, and never returns.

=back

=head1 ACCESSOR METHODS

For AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect, the following
L<accessor methods|RPC::ExtDirect::Config/"ACCESSOR METHODS"> are
provided:

=over 4

=item C<api>

Return the current L<RPC::ExtDirect::API> instance held in the
server object, or set a new one.

=item C<config>

Return the current L<RPC::ExtDirect::Config> instance held in the
server object, or set a new one.

=back

=begin readme

=head1 INSTALLATION

To install this module type the following:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make && make test
    make install

=end readme

=for readme stop

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

I would like to thank IntelliSurvey, Inc for sponsoring my work
on versions 2.x and 3.x of the RPC::ExtDirect suite of modules.

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

At this time there are no known bugs in this module. Please report
problems to the author, patches are always welcome.

Use L<Github tracker|https://github.com/nohuhu/AnyEvent-HTTPD-ExtDirect/issues>
to open bug reports, this is the easiest and quickest way to get your
issue fixed.

=for readme continue

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2013-2015 Alex Tokarev E<lt>tokarev@cpan.orgE<gt>.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself. See L<perlartistic>.

=cut
