=pod

=head1 NAME

Locale::VersionedMessages::Overview - an overview of Locale::VersionedMessages

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The problem of localization of an application is well understood,
and is solved in a quite simple way.

Rather than hard coding messages in a program, the messages are stored
in a lookup table (called a lexicon).  A lexicon is a list of all of
the messages for a single locale. There is one lexicon for each
locale.

Every time you need to display a message in the program, it looks up
the message in the lexicon for the locale you are using.

The process of localizing the program in another locale is then simply
a matter of creating a new lexicon for the new locale.

The actual procedures for doing all this can be grouped into the
following broad tasks:

=over 4

=item B<Create the localization infrastructure>

When you decide you want to localize a set of messages, you need to
create the infrastructure for this.  This typically consists of a set
of files (one per locale), and perhaps additional files containing
information about the set of messages, etc.

Because the structure of these files will follow quite rigid rules,
and have different requirements (based on the localization tools being
used), this step tends to be best done using a tool to initialize
everything.

In it's most basic form, the infrastructure will consist of one
lexicon containing every one of the messages translated to the default
locale.  It may also have a file containing the list (and possibly
description) of the messages that will go in each lexicon.

=item B<Add messages>

When a message is added to the set of messages, it has to be added to
the localization files.

Every message will be labeled using a unique ID called the message ID.
This message ID will not be shared by any other message in the set of
messages (though it could be used in a different set).

These message IDs will be used by the program to access the actual
message.  Assigning the message ID is a matter of convention... there
are no strict rules governing them.

As a final step, the message will need to be written out in the
default locale and stored in the default lexicon.  It may also be
translated for other lexicons, but that is optional, and will probably
be performed after the message is added by translators who understand
both languages.

=item B<Translate messages>

Once the message is in the default lexicon, it can then be translated
to any other language for which a lexicon exists.

In general it is not required that every message be translated into
every locale (i.e. be present in every lexicon). A lexicon is allowed
to be incomplete. However, it is required that the default lexicon be
complete (i.e. contain every single message ID and the corresponding
message in the language of the default locale).

=item B<Create additional lexicons>

Additional lexicons can be created and represent a translation of the
program to some other language. As previously stated, with the exception
of the default lexicon, it is not necessary that every message be
translated... however ideally they will be.

If a message does not exist in a lexicon, the message from the default
lexicon can be used, however that will result in a multilingual program,
so ideally, all of the lexicons will be complete.

=item B<Maintain existing messages>

The final part of the process is to maintain the messages stored in
the lexicon.

In an ideal world, the messages will all get added to all the
lexicons, they will be translated a single time, and after that,
they'll all be static.  Unfortunately, this is not the case in
the real world.

Messages may change in order to clarify things, correct mistakes, or
add greater detail.  In some cases, as the program changes over time,
the messages may become inaccurate due to changes in the functionality
of the program, and the messages will need to be updated accordingly.

Changes in the message should ideally be reflected in all of the
lexicons. In other words, changes to the message as it exists in the
default lexicon should be reflected in all the translations.
Unfortunately, none of the existing tools seemed to provide any level
of support for this operation.

Translating a message is typically not done by a single individual.
It's done by many people (typically one per locale) who have different
time lines, different levels of attention to detail, and different
amounts of time they can devote to the task.  As such, if you give
them a list of messages to maintain, in order to do so effectively,
they need to know something about which ones are up-to-date, and which
need some work.

This is the step which prompted me to write this set of tools.  It
seemed to me that the standard tools for localization were missing
this step.

=back

Once the lexicons are created, actually using them in a program
is typically a fairly simple task.

A number of modules exist which handle various portions of the
internationalization task, however none exist which provide the tools
necessary to handle all of the tasks listed above.

This distribution is an attempt to deal with all of the tasks related
to internationalization. It includes (or will include) a combination
of modules and tools to create, use, and maintain messages for use by
an application.

Although several different tools exist for handling the localization
process, I'll concentrate on three: Locale::gettext, Locale::Maketext,
and this one (Locale::VersionedMessages).

In contrasting Locale::VersionedMessages with the other modules, it should be
noted that some of the characteristics for those modules discussed
below are conventions encouraged by the module rather than forced
behaviors. In some cases, the behaviors of the Locale::VersionedMessages module
could be obtained using the other modules.  However, I want to examine
not only changes in the functionality, but changes in convention as
well.

=head1 LOCALIZATION TOOLS COMPARED

In comparing the different localization tools, I will concentrate on
a few characteristics:

=over 4

=item How are the translations stored

Translations can be stored as data files or perl modules.  Data files
are a bit harder to handle in a platform-neutral way, and tend to be
less flexible, but are typically easier to maintain.

From a perl perspective, one disadvantage with using data files is
that they are outside of the perl framework, and are stored simply as
files on the filesystem. Even though perl has excellent support for
installing and accessing modules, installing and accessing data files
is less straightforward.  Having a module work with a data file in a
completely platform neutral way is difficult (though certainly not
impossible) due to the different standards for different
platforms. Different operating systems, and even different system
administrators within a single operating system have different
conventions for where data files live, so accessing data files in a
way that will fit all the different circumstances is quite difficult.

Though the problems with data files are certainly not insurmountable,
an alternate solution is to store the data in a perl module which can
then be loaded without any extra effort on the part of the module
author, or the programmer of an application that uses the module.
Perl modules are very easy to access.  They are also much more
flexible.  However, they harder to maintain automatically since they
are not guaranteed to follow a specific format.

=item What conventions are there

Most localization tools establish conventions, which may not actually
be the best convention to use in some cases, and it's worth discussing
these conventions.

=item How are plurals handled

Perhaps the hardest part of translating a message is to correctly
handle numbers.  For example, if you want to translate the message:

   I found N files.

in English, you actually have two cases:

   I found 1 file.
   I found N files.  (for N>1).

You might even want to say:

   I didn't find any files.

for N=0.  Other languages have equally (and in some cases,
significantly more) complicated rules.

=item How are the localization tasks performed

The different localization tasks listed above are handled in
different ways using the different tools, so they will be
described briefly.

=back

For this comparison, I will use B<Locale::gettext> and
B<Locale::Maketext> in addition to B<Locale::VersionedMessages>.

=over 4

=item B<Locale::gettext>

The Locale::gettext module is probably the most widely used of the
localization modules, and has a number of advantages.  The single most
important advantage that the gettext tools have is that the gettext
tools for localization are widely used and available practically
everywhere.

The gettext lexicons are stored as data files.  Interfaces to these
data files exist for almost every programming language (including
perl).  However, there are (IMO) significant weaknesses in the gettext
data files that do not lend themselves well to all of the tasks listed
above.

A number of standard tools exist for maintaining the actual data
files, so the tasks of creating the infrastructure, and adding
messages and/or lexicons are very well supported and understood.
However, important functionality is missing (due primarily to the
format of the data files) with respect to maintaining translations.
This will be discussed below.

The basic file in the gettext world is the PO file. In it's simplest
form, this consists of a file which contains a series of messages,
each of which consists of a message ID and the text. A simple,
one-message PO file containing the example message (for a French
locale) might look like:

   msgid  "Unable to open file %s: Err = %s\n"
   msgstr "Incapable d'ouvrir le fichier %s: Err = %s\n"

Some comments about this:

By convention, the msgid is the untranslated string (i.e. the string
in the default locale), so by convention, there is no default
lexicon.  This means that the full message is used in the program.
Although people do not necessarily have to adhere to this convention,
it is often done, and I disagree with the convention.  If you have
a long message, especially one that is used multiple times, then you
have to write the full message multiple times in the program.  Also,
changing the message means changing it multiple times in the program
AND in every single lexicon.  I find that to be an unacceptable
amount of overhead.

Also, although there may be comments associated with the message,
they are optional, and maintained by the translators, so in it's
simplest form, the messages do not have any description (such as
version information) which might aid in maintaining the messages.

Another thing to note is that the order of the substitution values
(%s) must be the same in all translations.

The gettext does handle plural values, but it is tedious.  You have to
have a full translation for each case, which makes translating a long
message tedious (a lot of repetition).  As an example:

   "Plural-Forms: nplurals=3; plural=n%10==1 && n%100!=11 ? 0 :"
   "n%10>=2 && n%10<=4 && (n%100<10 || n%100>=20) ? 1 : 2;\n"

   msgid "One file removed"
   msgid_plural "%d files removed"
   msgstr[0] "%d slika je uklonjena"
   msgstr[1] "%d datoteke uklonjenih"
   msgstr[2] "%d slika uklonjenih"

This form is extremely flexible in that it allows you to choose any
number of plural forms, and handle them specially.  In this example,
the first form (msgstr[0]) is used any time the number ends in 1, but
not 11; the second is used when the number ends in 2, 3, or 4, but not
12, 13, or 14, and the last form is used in all other cases.  The fact
that this is a real case illustrates how complex localization can be,
and the need for a very flexible tool.

One problem with gettext is that the plurality problem is handled on
the entire message.  If the message is long and has a lot of text
surrounding the number that is not affected by the plurality of the
number, a lot of repetition is present.

Finally, it does not allow for a message to have two plural items:

   I have X apples and Y oranges.

so this would have to be broken up into two messages (and depending
on the message, some languages may not break into two in the same
way necessary to do this in a general way).

=item B<Locale::Maketext>

The Locale::Maketext module differs from the Locale::gettext method in
several ways.

Unlike the Locale::gettext method, it store all of the data in perl
modules, however I disagree with the way it is done.

The primary module is:
   _PROGRAM_::_SOMETHING_
This contains the default lexicon.  In addition, there are other modules:
   _PROGRAM_::_SOMETHING_::_LOCALE_
which contain additional lexicons.  Here, _SOMETHING_ can be any
string chosen by the programmer to specify that these are messages used
by _PROGRAM_.  By convention, it is something like: 'I18N', or
'Messages', or 'Localization', etc., but this is not a requirement.

I dislike this convention for one primary reason: it's bad practice to
make every application (or set of messages) a top-level name in the
hierarchy of perl modules.  That is a great way to mess up the perl module
namespace.

A Locale::Maketext lexicon module contains similar information to the
gettext PO file, but is stored in the form of a hash:

   %Lexicon = (
      "Unable to open file [_1]: Err = [_2]\n" =>
         "Incapable d'ouvrir le fichier [_1]: Err = [_2]\n"
   );

Again, by convention, the untranslated message is often used as the
message ID, and the default lexicon can basically be empty in this
case.

Aside from that, this method has a number of potential advantages
over the gettext.

Since the lexicons are hashes, other information could be stored in
them; however, at this point, none is.

Locale::Maketext is not limited to having substitutions the same in
every language.  Since they are referred to by number, they can
be in different orders in different translations.

Finally, Locale::Maketext handles plurals differently.  It is done in
a less flexible, but more convenient way:

   %Lexicon = (
      "Found" =>
         "Found [quant,_1,document,documents,nothing]" =>,
   );

This returns one of the messages:

   Found 1 document
   Found 3 documents
   Found nothing

In other words, the first form is singular (and 1 is prepended), the second
is for numbers greater than 1 (and the number is prepended), and the the
third form is for numbers less than or equal to zero (but the number is NOT
prepended).

The general form is much more convenient than Locale::gettext, but it is
certainly less flexible than the gettext version.

However, any number of [quant...] substitutions can be embedded, so
translating:

   I found N apples and M oranges

is possible.

The main disadvantage to the Locale::Maketext toolkit is that there
are no tools to help in creating or maintaining the modules that make
up the lexicons.

All handling of the messages is done manually, and this definitely
hampers the practical usefulness of this toolkit to those responsible
for maintaining a translation.

=item B<Locale::VersionedMessages>

The Locale::VersionedMessages stores all data in perl modules similar to
Locale::Maketext, but it uses a different hierarchy:

Every set of messages is defined in a module:

   Locale::VersionedMessages::Sets::SET

This modules does NOT contain a lexicon.  Instead, it contains a simple
description of all messages, including information that will be useful
to translators.  The format of this module is:

   $DefaultLocale = _LOCALE_;
   @AllLocale     = (_LOCALE_, _LOCALE_, ...);

   %Messages = (
      'Unable to open file' =>
        {
          'vals'   => ['FILE','ERR'],
          'desc'   => 'The I/O error for when a file cannot be opened',
        },
   );

Any number of lexicons will be stored, each in a module:

   Locale::VersionedMessages::Sets::SET::LOCALE

The format of a lexicon module is:

   %Messages = (
      'Unable to open file' =>
         {
            'vers'   => 3,
            'text'   => "Unable to open file [FILE]: Err = [ERR]\n"
         },
   )

Clearly, there is a lot more information here, and since data is stored
as key/value pairs in a hash, additional information may be added in
the future without fear of breaking existing code.  It should also be noted
that currently the values of 'desc' (in the description module) and 'text'
(in the lexicon modules) can be UTF-8.  All other values are straight ASCII.

It should be noted that SET is explicitly NOT defined to be the name
of a program.  I would like to encourage creation of reusable sets of
messages, so there could be a set called IO_Errors (which contained
common I/O errors), Buttons (which contained common button labels used
in programs), etc.

In order to help with maintaining the modules, the format of these
modules is fairly rigid.  They can be edited by hand, or they can
be maintained using the included tools.

Unlike both of the other methods listed above, I encourage using a
convention where the message ID is NOT the message in the default
lexicon.  Instead, by convention, it is a short string describing the
message that will not need to be changed, even if the text of the
message does change.

There are too many problems with using the untranslated message as
the message ID.

If you ever need to change the text of the message, for any reason,
it involves both changes to the lexicons AND changes to the program
using the lexicons.

If the message is multi-line, it is simply not practical to use it
as the message ID, so you'll end up using a shorter message description
as the ID anyway.

If the message is too short (perhaps only one or two words, such as the
label on a button), a good translation may require some contextual
information that is not available from the one or two word message
itself.

So, I consider it a very poor convention to use the following as
message IDs:

   Cancel

   I have [quant,n,apple,apples] and [quant,m,orange,oranges]

   This is a long message.
   It's multi-line.
   And I don't want to use it as a message ID.

The first is two short.  A translator may not be able to translate it
without knowing some context.  The second contains a lot of
information that doesn't need to be in the message ID and it tends to
complicate and obscure the actual message.  The third is too long.

Far better message IDs would be:

   Cancel button label

   How many apples [n] and oranges [m]

   Multi-line sample message

Then, the text above can go in the appropriate lexicon.

It IS appropriate (though not necessary) to include the values that
need to be passed in as that allows the programmer to easily see what
variables need to be passed in.

Another problem with using the messages as the message IDs is that the
default lexicon can then be left empty (which is done in practice).  When
you do that, it is much harder to find a list of messages that need to be
kept up-to-date.  In my opinion, the default lexicon should ALWAYS contain
every single message.

Locale::VersionedMessages handles plural items in a format that is similar to
Locale::Maketext, but with most of the flexibility of Locale::gettext.

A message might include:

   A simple substitution is [mystring]

   This is a formatted decimal number: [num:%3.1d]

   I have [n:quant [_n=1] [1 orange] [_n<1] [no oranges] [_n oranges]]

All values are passed in by name rather than by position in the
argument list.

The format for this is covered in the main manual for this module.
It can handle much more complicated cases, such as the one given above
in the gettext description.

As already mentioned, this module provides tools for creating and
maintaining the modules.  The format of the modules is very simple.
They consist of some simple perl data structures which contain all the
message information.

It can be edited by hand, or maintained automatically (though doing
this will format the file automatically, remove comments, etc.).  It
will also remove any perl other than the data structures, so it is
highly recommended that translators stick to the simplest forms of the
modules.

The single largest advantage to the Locale::VersionedMessages module is that
it includes the ability to truly maintain lexicons by providing version
numbers for every single message.

When a message in the default lexicon is modified, the version number
will be incremented.  This allows you to easily see which messages in
which lexicons are out-of-date with respect to the default lexicon.
Other tools only allow you to see which messages are missing from a
lexicon, and this is a significant weakness in them.

=back

=head1 LOCALE::MESSAGES TOOLS

Currently, the Locale::VersionedMessages distribution includes one tool
(B<lm_gui>) which is a Perl-Tk based graphical tool for managing
message sets and lexicons.  At some point, a command line tool may
also be made available, but it is not yet ready for general use.

The B<lm_gui> tool is not as pretty as I'd like.  It is based on
my somewhat limited knowledge and experience with Perl-Tk, so it is
definitely not the most polished application, but it is fully
functional (and I plan on improving it's look over time).

In addition, it's fully localized, so it can be used both as the tool
to manage your own localization, and as a complete reference example.
It should be noted that all messages should be entered as UTF-8 text,
NOT in some other encoding.  Future versions of the tool may support
additional encodings.

The B<lm_gui> tool will read and write the perl modules that
contain a message set description and the lexicons.  Since the modules
are simply created by writing out perl data structures, any changes
made to them such as added comments, changes in formatting, etc., will
be lost, so if you choose to use this tool, be aware of that if you
choose to also manually edit the files.

The B<lm_gui> tool supports all of the operations described above
involved in creating and maintaining a localization infrastructure.

=over 4

=item B<Create the localization infrastructure>

To create the infrastructure for a new set of messages, run the
B<lm_gui> tool.  When creating a new set, you will have to supply
a directory and the name of the set.

The directory be where the Locale::VersionedMessages hierarchy of perl modules
describing this set will live.  Inside the specified directory will
be a hierarchy B<Locale/Message/Sets> and the modules will be created
and placed in that directory.

The set name is a simple alphanumeric/undersocre label naming the message
set.

After specifying that, you will also be required to select the default
locale (which should be something in the form en_US).

Once that's done, the message infrastructure will be created (though it
will contain no messages at this point).  You'll then be able to
use the B<lm_gui> tool to add messages and lexicons.

=item B<Add messages>

To add a new message, click on the B<Add Message> button in B<lm_gui>.  You'll
then be asked for the following information:

The Message ID is a simple one-line label for the message.  This will be
used inside the program to reference the message.  Message IDs MUST be unique
within the set of messages.

The Message Description is an optional one-line description of the message.
It is used only to give translators additional information about the
message.  It can contain UTF-8 text.

The Substitution Values are the names of the parameters that can be
passed in the Locale::VersionedMessages::message to be inserted in to the message.
This should be a space separated list of names, and is optional.

Finally, you have to enter the text of the message as it appears in the
default locale.  The text can include UTF-8 text.

=item B<Create additional lexicons>

The B<lm_gui> tool can also be used to create a new lexicon file.  Just type
in the name of the new locale (in the form en_US) and it'll create the
lexicon.  At that point, you can translate any/all of the messages for the
new locale.

=item B<Translate messages>

=item B<Maintain existing messages>

Maintaining messages is the central task of the B<lm_gui> tool.  Because
every message has a version number, the tool can easily be used to maintain
different translations, even when the default messages are changing.

When working with the default lexicon, you can modify the text of the
message in the default locale.  You can also modify the description of
the message if desired.

It is even possible to adjust the message ID (and it will be changed in
all existing lexicons automatically).  This should be done very rarely
since that will entail modifying the source code of all applications which
use this message.  As a general rule, the message ID should not be modified
once it is in use.

When modifying the text of the message, by default, the version number
in the default lexicon will be incremented.  This will have the effect of
flagging the message in all other lexicons as out-of-date.  If the change
to the message is so simple that it should not increment the version
(such as fixing a typo or simple grammatical error), click on the B<Leave
Version Unmodified> box.

When working with other lexicons, the list of message IDs will be
displayed with some color coding.  Red messages are missing from this
lexicon, so they need to be translated.  Yellow messages are in the
lexicon, but are marked out-of-date.  All other messages are
up-to-date in this lexicon.  When a message ID is selected, the
description of the message and the text in the default locale will be
displayed.  This will allow you to compare the translation to the default
message.  If you modify the message, by default, it will then be treated
as up-to-date.  If you modify the message, but feel that it still needs
later work, you may want to click on the 'Mark Out-Of-Date' box so that
the message will be left in an out-of-date state.  You can even click on
that box with a message previously marked as up-to-date to flag the
message for later review.

=back

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the Locale::VersionedMessages documentation for information on
submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Locale::VersionedMessages

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut

