=head1 README: Math::Zap

Draw 3D objects in 2D

This package supplies methods to draw a scene, containing three dimensional
objects, as a two dimensional image, using lighting and shadowing to assist the
human observer in reconstructing the original three dimensional scene.

Example zap.pl

 #!perl -w
 #______________________________________________________________________
 # Draw triangles with shadows in 3d
 # Perl License.
 # PhilipRBrenan@yahoo.com, 2004.
 #______________________________________________________________________
 
 use Math::Zap::Draw;
 use Math::Zap::Cube unit=>'cu';
 use Math::Zap::Triangle;
 use Math::Zap::Vector;
 
 #_ Draw _______________________________________________________________
 # Draw this set of objects.
 #______________________________________________________________________
 
 draw 
   ->from    (vector( 10,   10,  10))
   ->to      (vector(  0,    0,   0))
   ->horizon (vector(  1,  0.5,   0))
   ->light   (vector( 20,   30, -20))
 
     ->object(triangle(vector( 0,  0,  0), vector( 8,  0,  0), vector( 0,  8,  0)),                         'red')
     ->object(triangle(vector( 0,  0,  0), vector( 0,  0,  8), vector( 0,  8,  0)),                         'green')
     ->object(triangle(vector( 0,  0,  0), vector(12,  0,  0), vector( 0,  0, 12)) - vector(2.5,  0,  2.5), 'blue')
     ->object(triangle(vector( 0,  0,  0), vector( 8,  0,  0), vector( 0, -8,  0)),                         'pink')
     ->object(triangle(vector( 0,  0,  0), vector( 0,  0,  8), vector( 0, -8,  0)),                         'orange')
     ->object(cu()*2+vector(3,5,1), 'lightblue')
 
 ->done; 
 


See directory B<eg> for further examples.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself. 

=head1 INSTALL

This is alpha code. It is written in pure Perl. It uses the standard
Perl install mechanism.

Download Math-Zap-1.07.tar.gz from CPAN, untar and:

  perl Makefile.PL
  make
  make test
  make install

If you are on Windows, use nmake, available at:

http://download.microsoft.com/download/vc15/Patch/1.52/W95/EN-US/Nmake15.exe

For bug reports or suggestions please send email to:
philiprbrenan@yahoo.com

=head1 TO DO

Help with this project would be appreciated, expecially in the following
areas:

Optimization

Cylinders, spheres, torii

Integration of incident power

More object types

Lighting effects

Textures for each plane

