=head1 NAME

Net::Hotline::FileInfoItem - File object used internally by Net::Hotline::Client

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::Hotline::FileInfoItem;

    $file = new Net::Hotline::FileInfoItem;

    $file->name("smile");
    $file->comments("A happy file.");
    ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Net::Hotline::FileInfoItem is a simple class for storing and retrieving file
information,  You should never have to create your own
Net::Hotline::FileInfoItem objects when using Net::Hotline::Client.  Getting and (to
a lesser extent) setting attributes is all that should be necessary.

=head1 CONSTRUCTION

=over 4

=item new

Creates a new Net::Hotline::FileInfoItem object with all attributes set to undef.

=back

=head1 METHODS

All the Net::Hotline::FileInfoItem methods are simple attribute get/set routines.
If given an argument, they set an attribute.  In all cases, they
return the current value of the attribute.

=over 4

=item comment TEXT

The file comments (as seen in the Mac OS Finder).

=item ctime NUM

The creation time of the file, given as a Mac OS native time value.  Add
the constant Net::Hotline::Constants::HTLC_MACOS_TO_UNIX_TIME to it to change it
to seconds since the Unix epoch.

=item creator TEXT

The file creator, given as a four-letter Mac OS creator code ("TTXT", "SIT!",
etc.)

=item name TEXT

The file name.

=item icon

The file icon given as a four-letter code.

=item mtime NUM

The modification time of the file, given as a Mac OS native time value. 
Add the constant Net::Hotline::Constants::HTLC_MACOS_TO_UNIX_TIME to it to
change it to seconds since the Unix epoch.

=item ctime NUM

The creation time of the file, given as a Mac OS native time value.
Add the constant Net::Hotline::Constants::HTLC_MACOS_TO_UNIX_TIME to it to
change it to seconds since the Unix epoch.

=item size NUM

The size of the file in bytes.

=item type TEXT

The file type, given as a four-letter Mac OS type code ("TEXT", "PICT", etc.),
Net::Hotline::Constants::HTLC_INFO_FOLDER_TYPE for folders, and
Net::Hotline::Constants::HTLC_INFO_FALIAS_TYPE for folder aliases.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

John C. Siracusa (siracusa@mindspring.com)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright(c) 1999 by John Siracusa.  All rights reserved.  This program is
free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms
as Perl itself.
