=head1 NAME

Net::Hotline::FileListItem - File object used internally by Net::Hotline::Client

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::Hotline::FileListItem;

    $file = new Net::Hotline::FileListItem;

    $file->name("foo.txt");
    $file->type("TEXT");
    ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Net::Hotline::FileListItem is a simple class for storing and retrieving file
information,  You should never have to create your own
Net::Hotline::FileListItem objects when using Net::Hotline::Client.  Getting and (to
a lesser extent) setting attributes is all that should be necessary.

=head1 CONSTRUCTION

=over 4

=item new

Creates a new Net::Hotline::FileListItem object with all attributes set to undef
(or zero for numeric attributes).

=back

=head1 METHODS

All the Net::Hotline::FileListItem methods are simple attribute get/set routines.
If given an argument, they set an attribute.  In all cases, they
return the current value of the attribute.

=over 4

=item creator TEXT

The file creator, given as a four-letter Mac OS creator code ("TTXT", "SIT!",
etc.)

=item name TEXT

The file name.

=item size NUM

The size of the file in bytes.

=item type TEXT

The file type, given as a four-letter Mac OS type code ("TEXT", "PICT", etc.)
or Net::Hotline::Constants::HTLC_FOLDER_TYPE for folders.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

John C. Siracusa (siracusa@mindspring.com)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright(c) 1999 by John Siracusa.  All rights reserved.  This program is
free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms
as Perl itself.
