=head1 NAME

Net::Hotline::PrivateChat - Private chat object used internally by Net::Hotline::Client

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::Hotline::PrivateChat;

    $pchat = new Net::Hotline::PrivateChat;

    $pchat->subject("Issue 1: Monkey beards");
    $pchat->reference(0x313337);
    ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Net::Hotline::PrivateChat is a simple class for storing and retrieving private
chat information,  You should never have to create your own
Net::Hotline::PrivateChat objects when using Net::Hotline::Client.  Getting
and (to a lesser extent) setting attributes is all that should be necessary.

=head1 CONSTRUCTION

=over 4

=item new REF, USERLIST, SUBJECT

Creates a new Net::Hotline::PrivateChat object with the reference REF,
userlist USERLIST, and subject SUBJECT, where REF is a number, USERLIST is a
reference to a hash of Net::Hotline::User objects keyed by socket number, and
SUBJECT is a string.  Any missing arguments will be set to undef.

=back

=head1 METHODS

All the Net::Hotline::PrivateChat methods are simple attribute get/set
routines. If given an argument, they set an attribute.  In all cases, they
return the current value of the attribute.

=over 4

=item reference NUM

The private chat reference number.

=item subject TEXT

The subject of the private chat.

=item userlist HASHREF

The list of users in the private chat.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

John C. Siracusa (siracusa@mindspring.com)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright(c) 1999 by John Siracusa.  All rights reserved.  This program is
free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms
as Perl itself.
