=head1 NAME

Net::Hotline::TrackerListItem - File object used internally by Net::Hotline::Client

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::Hotline::TrackerListItem;

    $file = new Net::Hotline::TrackerListItem;

    $file->address("hotline.foo.com");
    $file->port(5500);
    ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Net::Hotline::TrackerListItem is a simple class for storing and retrieving tracked
server information,  You should never have to create your own
Net::Hotline::TrackerListItem objects when using Net::Hotline::Client.  Getting and (to
a lesser extent) setting attributes is all that should be necessary.

=head1 CONSTRUCTION

=over 4

=item new ADDRESS, PORT, NUM_USERS, NAME, DESCRIPTION

With exactly five arguments, creates a new Net::Hotline::TrackerListItem
object with all attributes set.  With no arguments, creates a new
Net::Hotline::TrackerListItem object with all attributes set to undef.

=back

=head1 METHODS

All the Net::Hotline::TrackerListItem methods are simple attribute get/set routines.
If given an argument, they set an attribute.  In all cases, they
return the current value of the attribute.

=over 4

=item address TEXT

The IP address of the server.

=item port NUM

The port the server is running on.

=item num_users NUM

The (claimed) number of users connected to the server.

=item name TEXT

The server name, as set by the server administrator (i.e. "Ambrosia Software"
or "Myth Central")

=item description TEXT

The server description, as set by the server administrator.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

John C. Siracusa (siracusa@mindspring.com)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright(c) 1999 by John Siracusa.  All rights reserved.  This program is
free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms
as Perl itself.
