=head1 NAME

Locale::XGettext::Util::Flag - A Flag Specification Used By xgettext

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Locale::XGettext::Util::Flag;

    $keyword = Locale::XGettext::Flag->new(function => '__x',
                                           arg => 1,
                                           flag => 'perl-brace-format',
                                           no => 0,
                                           pass => 0);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The module encapsulates a keflagyword specification for xgettext like
string extractors.  It is only interesting for authors of extractors
based on L<Locale::XGettext>.

=head1 CONSTRUCTORS

=over 4

=item B<new ARGS>

Creates a new flag definition.  B<ARGS> must be a has (or a sequence of
key-value pairs) with the following items:

=over 8

=item B<function>

The name of the function resp. keyword.  This is mandatory.

=item B<arg>

An integer B<N> greater than 0 for the argument number.

=item B<flag>

The name of the flag to be applied, for example "perl-brace-format"
or "no-perl-brace-format".  A possible prefix of "no-" or "pass-"
is stripped off and interpreted accordingly but only if "pass" or
"no" were not explicitly specified.

=item B<no>

The entry should be marked with "no-FLAG" instead of "FLAG".

=item B<pass>

As if "pass-FLAG" had been specified on the command-line.  This is
ignored by L<Locale::XGettext>.

=back

=item B<newFromString COMMAND_LINE_ARG>

B<COMMAND_LINE_ARG> has the same semantcis as the argument to
"--flag" of L<xgettext(1)>.  Note that a prefix of "pass-" is
ignored by L<Locale::XGettext>!

=back

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<function>

Get the function name for the keyword.

=item B<arg>

Get the position of the argument.

=item B<flag>

The flag (for example "perl-brace-format", "c-format", etc.)

=item B<no>

True if entry should be marked as "no-FLAG".

=item B<pass>

True if flag was preceded by "pass-".  Ignored by L<Locale::XGettext>.

=item B<dump>

Dump the flag definition into a string suitable for an argument
to the xgettext option '--flag'.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Guido Flohr <guido.flohr@cantanea.com>,
all rights reserved.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Locale::XGettext>, L<xgettext(1)>, L<perl(1)>
