=head1 NAME

ALPM::Conf - pacman.conf config file parser and ALPM loader

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	use ALPM::Conf;	
	my $conf = ALPM::Conf->new('/etc/pacman.conf');
	my $alpm = $conf->parse;
	
	# Try again with custom fields:
	my $value;
	my %fields = ('CustomField' => sub { $value = shift });
	$conf->custom_fields(%fields);
	$alpm = $conf->parse();
	print "$value\n";

	# When imported with an argument, a conf file is loaded and
	# an alpm instance (named $alpm) is imported into the caller's
	# namespace.
	use ALPM::Conf '/etc/pacman.conf';
	print $alpm->get_arch, "\n";

	# This is handy for the command line or shell scripts.
	% perl -MALPM::Conf=/etc/pacman.conf -e '
	for $p ($alpm->localdb->pkgs){
		print $p->name, " ", $p->version, "\n";
	}
	'

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class is used to parse the pacman.conf files which are used by ArchLinux's
pacman for config files.  The configuration fields are used to set ALPM options.
A new I<ALPM> object instance is created with corresponding options set.

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=head2 new

	$OBJ = ALPM::Conf->new($CONF_PATH);

=over 4

=item C<$CONF_PATH>

The path to the configuration file that should be parsed.

=item C<$OBJ>

A new I<ALPM::Conf> object.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 parse

	$ALPM_OBJ = $OBJ->parse()

Parses the configuration file that is located at the path provided by the
constructor argument. Options and servers are applied to a newly
created ALPM object.

=over 4

=item C<$ALPM_OBJ>

A new instance of an L<ALPM> object.

=back

=head2 custom_fields

	undef = $OBJ->custom_fields(%CFIELDS);

=over 4

=item C<%CFIELDS>

A hash that describes custom fields and the actions that should
be performed when a matching field is scanned. The keys of the hash
are the field names (case sensitive) and the values are code references.
When a field is scanned the code reference is called with the entire line
of the field's value as the only argument.

=back

=head1 IMPORT MAGIC

When an import argument is given then special magic is performed. The
argument should be the path to a pacman configuration file to load. This
.conf file is parsed by a newly created I<ALPM::Conf> instance. The result
of the parsing is stored in the importing package's namespace under the
name of the C<$alpm> scalar. See the synopsis for an example. If you are
not familiar, you can give import arguments the following ways:

	# Using use:
	use ALPM::Conf '/etc/pacman.conf';
	
	# Require is more transparent:
	require ALPM::Conf;
	ALPM::Conf->import('/etc/pacman.conf');
	
	# On the command-line (see perlrun(1) manpage):
	perl -MALPM::Conf=/etc/pacman.conf -e '...'

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ALPM>

=head1 AUTHOR

Justin Davis, C<< <juster at cpan dot org> >>

Andrew Gregory <apg@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2015 by Justin Davis

Copyright (C) 2015 by Andrew Gregory <apg@cpan.org>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.10.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.
