=head1 NAME

ALPM::DB - Database base class, inherited by local and sync databases.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use ALPM::Conf qw(/etc/pacman.conf);
  my $db = $alpm->localdb;
  printf "Playing with %s database\n", $db->name;
  my $perl = $db->find('perl') or die 'where is perl';
  
  $db = $alpm->register('community') or die;
  $db->add_server('ftp://ftp.archlinux.org/community/os/i686') or die;
  
  for my $pkg ($db->search('perl')){
      printf "%s\t%s\n", $pkg->name, $pkg->version;
  }
  
  for my $pkg ($db->find_group('xfce4')){
      printf "xfce4:\t%s\t%s\n", $pkg->name, $pkg->version;
  }
  
  my %grps = $db->groups;
  while(my($g, $pkgs) = each %grps){
      printf "%s\t%s\n", $g, $_->name for(@$pkgs);
  }

=head1 OBJECT METHODS

=head2 name

  $NAME = $DB->name()

=over 4

=item C<$NAME>

The previously assigned name of the database or 'local' for the local database.

=back

=head2 pkgs

  @PKGS = $DB->pkgs()

=over 4

=item C<@PKGS>

A list of packages in the package cache for this database.

=back

=head2 find

  $PKGS | undef = $DB->find($NAME)

=over 4

=item C<$NAME>

The exact name of a package to look for.

=item C<$PKGS>

On success, an L<ALPM::Package> object of the package found.

=item C<undef>

On failure, returned when a matching package is not found.

=back

=head2 search

  @PKGS = $DB->search($MATCH)

=over 4

=item C<$MATCH>

A substring to search for within the names of packages.

=item C<@PKGS>

A list of found packages, in the form of L<ALPM::Package> objects. This may
be empty.

=back

=head2 groups

  %GROUPS = $DB->groups()

=over 4

=item C<%GROUPS>

A hash (name/value pairs) of groups contained within the database. Each group
name is followed by an arrayref of L<ALPM::Package> objects. This may be empty.

=back

=head2 find_group

  @PKGS = $DB->find_group($NAME)

=over 4

=item C<$NAME>

The exact name of a group to search for.

=item C<@PKGS>

A list of packages which belong to the given group name. If no group was
found then this is empty.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ALPM::DB::Local>, L<ALPM::DB::Sync>, L<ALPM::Package>, L<ALPM>

=head1 AUTHOR

Justin Davis, C<< <juster at cpan dot org> >>

Andrew Gregory <apg@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2015 by Justin Davis

Copyright (C) 2015 by Andrew Gregory <apg@cpan.org>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.10.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.
