=head1 NAME

ALPM::Package - libalpm packages of files, with dependencies, etc.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use ALPM::Conf qw(/etc/pacman.conf);
  my $perlpkg = $alpm->localdb->find('perl');

  ## All package methods are accessors.

  my $name = $perlpkg->name();
  print "$name rocks!\n";

  ## Here is an ugly trick. Please forgive me.
  print "@{[$perlpkg->name]} rocks!\n";

  ## Dependencies are arrayrefs of hashrefs (AoH):
  print "$name depends on:\n";
  for my $deps (@{$perlpkg->depends}){
      print "\t@{$dep}{'name', 'mod', 'version'}\n";
  }

  ## File lists are also arrayrefs of hashrefs (AoH):
  print "$name owns files:\n";
  for my $f (@{$perlpkg->files}){
      printf "\t%s %o %d\n", $f->{'name'}, $f->{'mode'}, $f->{'size'};
  }
  
  ## Others lists are arrayrefs of scalars:
  print "$name is licensed under: @{$perlpkg->licenses}";

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class is a wrapper for all of the C<alpm_pkg_...> C library functions
of libalpm.  You retrieve the package from the database and you can then
access its information.

=head1 ACCESSORS

The accessors are named almost exactly the same as the C<alpm_pkg_get...>
functions. I have removed the get_ prefix on the accessors.  This is
because you can't really I<set> anything so you should know it's a get
anyways.

=over

=item * filename

=item * name

=item * version

=item * desc

=item * url

=item * builddate

=item * installdate

=item * packager

=item * arch

=item * size

=item * isize

=item * reason

=item * licenses

=item * groups

=item * depends

=item * optdepends

=item * conflicts

=item * provides

=item * deltas

=item * replaces

=item * files

=item * backup

=item * has_scriptlet

=item * download_size

=item * changelog

=item * requiredby

=item * optionalfor

=item * db

=item * checkmd5sum

=item * origin

=item * validation

=item * signature

=back

Attributes with plural names return an arrayref of strings.
I<depends> and I<files> return an arrayref of hashrefs.
I<db> returns an L<ALPM::DB> object.

=head2 origin

This should be either C<"file">, C<"localdb">, or <"syncdb">. If this returns C<"unknown"> something went wrong.

=head2 validation

This returns a string which can either be C<"unknown">, C<"none"> or one or
more of the following seperated by spaces:
C<"MD5">, C<"SHA">, or C<"PGP">.

=head2 signature

Returns the package signature as a string encoded in Base64.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ALPM>, L<ALPM::DB>

=head1 AUTHOR

Justin Davis, C<< <juster at cpan dot org> >>

Andrew Gregory <apg@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2015 by Justin Davis

Copyright (C) 2015 by Andrew Gregory <apg@cpan.org>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.10.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
