=head1 NAME

HTTP::State::Cookie - Cookie structure and functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # Default import only import "cookie_struct";
 use HTTP::State::Cookie;
 
 #Import the encoding functions
 use HTTP::State::Cookie qw<:encode>;

 #Import the decoding functions
 use HTTP::State::Cookie qw<:decode>;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Implements a structure representing a HTTP state fragment (cookie) and
associated creation/encoding/decoding functions. This module can be used
standalone but it's main purpose is to service L<HTTP::State> for a fast and up
to date client side 'cookie jar'.

=head1 API

=head2 Structure Creation

=head3 cookie_struct

  #Minimum required arguments
  cookie_struct name=>"value";
  
  #using constant keys
  cookie_struct name=>"value" KEY()=>"value", ...;
  cookie_struct name=>"value" KEY, "value", ...;

  #using string names
  cookie_struct name=>"value, key=>"value", ...;

Creates a cookie structure for later encoding or adding to a L<HTTP::State>
cookie jar.  Minimal initialisation of the cookie structure is performed to
allow expected processing of 'default' values for client side cookie jars.

The first two arguments are required. The first must be the B<name> of the
cookie, and the second must be the B<value>.

Remaining arguments are taken as key/value pairs representing the attributes of
a cookie.

The first attribute name is examined and expected to be a string or a integer,
which then determines how all attribute names are handled:


=over

=item string

A string matching the expected cookie attribute name (case insensitive) as per
RFC6265bis-draft:

		Name
		Value
		Expires
		Max-Age
		Domain
		Path
		Secure
		HTTPOnly
		SameSite
    Partitioned

Any other name is silently ignored.

  ie 
    my $struct = cookie_struct cool_name=>"some_value", Domain=>"somewhere.com"...

=item integer (constant)

An integer value equal to exported constants (C<use HTTP::State::Cookie ":constants">), 
allows for compile time attribute name checking and performance improvements:

		COOKIE_NAME
		COOKIE_VALUE
		COOKIE_EXPIRES
		COOKIE_MAX_AGE
		COOKIE_DOMAIN
		COOKIE_PATH
		COOKIE_SECURE
		COOKIE_HTTPONLY
		COOKIE_SAMESITE
    COOKIE_PARTITIONED

Any other integer value is ignored.

  ie 
    my $struct = cookie_struct cool_name=>"some_value", COOKIE_DOMAIN, "somewhere.com", ...

Note that the () will need to used after the constant name when using fat
arrows:

  # Same as above using fat arrows for attribute key value pairs
  ie 
    my $struct = cookie_struct cool_name=>"some_value", COOKIE_DOMAIN()=>"somewhere.com", ...

=back


=head2 HTTP Client Side

=head3 encode_cookies

  my $string = encode_cookies $struct1, struct2, ...

Encodes a list of cookie structures into a string suitable as the value of a
HTTP 'Cookie' header.  This will encode the name and value from multiple
cookies supplied into a single string, with the HTTP list separator.

Returns a encoded http header value string.


=head3 decode_set_cookie

  my  $cookie=decode_set_cookie $string $string;
  my  $cookie=decode_set_cookie $string $string, $offset;

Decodes a HTTP Set-Cookie header value into a cookie structure and returns it.

If the C<$offset> argument is defined, it is subtracted from the creation and
last access time fields, if they are present. This performs the reverse of the
C<$store_and_offset> argument in C<encode_set_cookie> to covert from local time
to GMT times. This is used by L<HTTP::State> to load cookies in local time for
storage compatible with L<HTTP::CookieJar>.


=head2 HTTP Server Side

=head3 encode_set_cookie

  my $string=encode_set_cookie $cookie;
  my $string=encode_set_cookie $cookie, $store_and_offset, $partition_key;

Encodes a cookie into a string suitable as the value of HTTP Set-Cookie
header.

If the C<$store_and_offset> argument is defined, internal fields for the
cookie are also encoded. The value is also used as a time offset (in seconds)
to add to the internal creation and last access times.

This is used by L<HTTP::State> to dump cookies in local time for storage
compatible with L<HTTP::CookieJar>.

If C<$partition_key> is defined, this is the partition key to store in the
COOKIE_PARTITIONED field when C<$store_and_offset> is defined.

=head3 decode_cookies

  my @cookies = decode_cookies $string;
  my @cookies = decode_cookies [$string, $string, ...];


Decodes a cookie string into cookie structures. Input arguments can be a single
string from a HTTP Cookie header or an reference to an array of multiple HTTP
cookie header values.

In the later case, the values are joined together and processed as if it was a
single string.

Returns a list of cookie structures with only B<name> and B<value> fields set.

=head1 AUTHOR

Ruben Westerberg, E<lt>drclaw@mac.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023 by Ruben Westerberg

Licensed under MIT

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES

THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=cut

