=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Construct::Text - capture a Mail::Message as text

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $text = $msg->string;
 my $text = "$msg";   # via overload

 my @text = $msg->lines;
 my @text = @$lines;  # via overload

 my $fh   = $msg->file;
 my $line = <$fh>;

 $msg->printStructure;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Complex functionality on L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message> objects is implemented in
different files which are autoloaded.  This file implements the
functionality related to creating message replies.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 The whole message as text

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<file>()

Returns the message as file-handle.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<lines>()

Returns the whole message as set of lines.  In LIST context, copies of the
lines are returned.  In SCALAR context, a reference to an array of lines
is returned.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<printStructure>( [$fh|undef],[$indent] )

Print the structure of a message to the specified $fh or the
selected filehandle.  When explicitly C<undef> is specified as handle,
then the output will be returned as string.

The message's subject and the types of all composing parts are
displayed.

$indent specifies the initial indentation string: it is added in front
of each line. The $indent must contain at least one white-space.

example: 

 my $msg = ...;
 $msg->printStructure(\*OUTPUT);

 $msg->printStructure;

 my $struct = $msg->printStructure(undef);

 # Possible output for one message:
 multipart/mixed: forwarded message from Pietje Puk (1550 bytes)
    text/plain (164 bytes)
    message/rfc822 (1043 bytes)
       multipart/alternative: A multipart alternative (942 bytes)
          text/plain (148 bytes, deleted)
          text/html (358 bytes)

=item $obj-E<gt>B<string>()

Returns the whole message as string.

=back

=head2 Flags

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Message distribution version 3.015,
built on December 11, 2023. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2023 by [Mark Overmeer <markov@cpan.org>]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

