=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Log::Report::Minimal - simulate Log::Report functions simple

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Log::Report::Minimal
   is an Exporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # See Log::Report, most functions get "hollow" behavior
  use Log::Report::Optional mode => 'DEBUG';

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module implements the functions provided by Log::Report, but then
as simple as possible: no support for translations, no dispatchers, no
smart exceptions.  The package uses C<Log::Report> in an C<::Optional>
way, the main script determines whether it wants the C<::Minimal> or
full-blown feature set.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item B<textdomain>( <[$name],$config>|<$name, 'DELETE'|'EXISTS'>|$domain )

Z<>

=back

=head2 Report Production and Configuration

=over 4

=item B<dispatcher>( <$type, $name, %options>|<$command, @names> )

Not supported.

=item B<report>( [\%options], $reason, $message|<STRING,$params> )

Be warned that C<%options> is a HASH here.

 -Option  --Default
  errno     $! or 1
  is_fatal  <depends on reason>

=over 2

=item errno => INTEGER

=item is_fatal => BOOLEAN

=back

=item B<try>(CODE, %options)

Z<>

=back

=head2 Abbreviations for report()

=over 4

=item B<alert>($message)

Z<>

=item B<assert>($message)

Z<>

=item B<error>($message)

Z<>

=item B<failure>($message)

Z<>

=item B<fault>($message)

Z<>

=item B<info>($message)

Z<>

=item B<mistake>($message)

Z<>

=item B<notice>($message)

Z<>

=item B<panic>($message)

Z<>

=item B<trace>($message)

Z<>

=item B<warning>($message)

Z<>

=back

=head2 Language Translations

No translations, no L<Log::Report::Message> objects returned.

=over 4

=item B<N__>($msgid)

Z<>

=item B<N__n>($single_msgid, $plural_msgid)

Z<>

=item B<N__w>(STRING)

Z<>

=item B<__>($msgid)

Z<>

=item B<__n>($msgid, $plural_msgid, $count, PAIRS)

Z<>

=item B<__nx>($msgid, $plural_msgid, $count, PAIRS)

Z<>

=item B<__x>($msgid, PAIRS)

Z<>

=item B<__xn>($single_msgid, $plural_msgid, $count, PAIRS)

Z<>

=back

=head2 Configuration

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<import>( [$domain], %options )

See Log::Report subroutine import.

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Error: even length parameter list for __x at $where

Cast by __x()

=item Error: odd length parameter list with '$msg'

Cast by report()

=item Error: syntax flag must be either SHORT or REPORT, not `$flag'

Cast by import()

=item Error: token '$token' not recognized as reason

Cast by report()

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Log-Report-Optional version 1.08,
built on September 08, 2025. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

For contributors see file ChangeLog.

This software is copyright (c) 2013-2025 by Mark Overmeer.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

