=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::AttributeArray - An array of Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute objects as an PKCS #11 attribute.

=head1 SYNPOSIS

  # Create an attribute module with an array of Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute objects
  package Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::WrapTemplate;
  use base qw(Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::AttributeArray);
  use Crypt::PKCS11 qw(:constant);
  sub type () { CKA_WRAP_TEMPLATE }

  # Use the attribute
  my $attribute = Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::WrapTemplate->new;
  $attribute->push(
      Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Token->new->set(1)
  );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A PKCS #11 attribute containing an array of Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute objects.

This module is similar to L<Crypt::PKCS11::Attributes> but is specially used to
contain attributes within attributes.

=head1 METHODS

See also L<Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute> for the base module methods.

=over 4

=item $attributeArray = $attributeArray->push (...)

Appends all arguments to the container, will croak unless each argument is a
L<Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute>. Returns itself on success.

=item $attribute = $attributeArray->pop

Removes and returns the last attribute in the container or undef if there are
none.

=item $attribute = $attributeArray->shift

Removes and returns the first attribute in the container or undef if there are
none.

=item $attributeArray = $attributeArray->unshift (...)

Prepends all arguments to the container, will croak unless each argument is a
L<Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute>. Returns itself on success.

=item $attributeArray = $attributeArray->foreach ($cb)

For each attribute in the container, call the given callback and supply it with
the attribute. Will croak if no callback is given and returns itself on success.

=item $array_ref = $attributeArray->toArray

Convert the container to an array reference in the format needed for the XS
calls, see TEMPLATE ARGUMENT in L<Crypt::PKCS11::XS>. Croaks on error.

=item $attributeArray = $attributeArray->set (@attributes)

Set the array of Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute objects for the attribute from the
list of arguments. May croak on error and returns itself on success.

=over 4

=item @bytes

A list of Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute objects.

=back

=item $pValue = $attributeArray->pValue

Overloads the default pValue call and returns an array references as decribed in
the C<toArray> call.

=back

=head1 NOTE

Derived from the RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface (Cryptoki)

=head1 AUTHOR

Jerry Lundström <lundstrom.jerry@gmail.com>

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs at https://github.com/dotse/p5-Crypt-PKCS11/issues .

=head1 LICENSE

  Copyright (c) 2015 Jerry Lundström <lundstrom.jerry@gmail.com>
  Copyright (c) 2015 .SE (The Internet Infrastructure Foundation)
  All rights reserved.

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
  are met:
  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
  "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
  A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
  HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
  DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
  THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
  (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
