=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::CK_DATE - A CK_DATE PKCS #11 attribute.

=head1 SYNPOSIS

  # Create an attribute module with a CK_DATE value
  package Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::StartDate;
  use base qw(Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::CK_DATE);
  use Crypt::PKCS11 qw(:constant);
  sub type () { CKA_START_DATE }

  # Use the attribute
  my $attribute = Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::StartDate->new;
  $attribute->set("20150101");

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A PKCS #11 attribute containing a CK_DATE value.

=head1 METHODS

See also L<Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute> for the base module methods.

=over 4

=item $attribute = $attribute->set (< $date || $year, $month, $day >)

Sets the CK_DATE value within the attribute. May croak on error and returns
itself on success.

=over 4

=item $date

Set the CK_DATE by giving a string containing the year, month and day that is
valid to the following regexp; ^([0-9]{4})-?([0-9]{2})-?([0-9]{2})$ .

=item $year, $month, $day

Set the CK_DATE by giving the year, month and day as seperate arguments.

=back

=item $date = $attribute->get

Return the CK_DATE value within the attribute or undef if not set.

=back

=head1 NOTE

Derived from the RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface (Cryptoki)

=head1 AUTHOR

Jerry Lundström <lundstrom.jerry@gmail.com>

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs at https://github.com/dotse/p5-Crypt-PKCS11/issues .

=head1 LICENSE

  Copyright (c) 2015 Jerry Lundström <lundstrom.jerry@gmail.com>
  Copyright (c) 2015 .SE (The Internet Infrastructure Foundation)
  All rights reserved.

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
  are met:
  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
  "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
  A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
  HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
  DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
  THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
  (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
