=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Value - An array of CK_BYTE values or a RFC2279 string as an PKCS #11 attribute.

=head1 SYNPOSIS

  use Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Value;
  my $attribute = Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Value->new;
  $attribute->set(0, 1, 2);
  $attribute->set("abc");

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A PKCS #11 attribute containing either an array of CK_BYTE values or a RFC2279
string. This attribute has the type CKA_VALUE.

=head1 METHODS

See also L<Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute> for the base module methods.

=over 4

=item $attribute = $attribute->set (< @bytes || $string >)

Set the array of CK_BYTE values for the attribute from the list of arguments or
sets the RFC2279 string value within the attribute. May croak on error and
returns itself on success.

=over 4

=item @bytes

A list of CK_BYTE values, each must be an unsigned integer value between 0 and
255.

=item $string

A defined scalar.

=back

=item < @bytes || $string > = $attribute->get

Return a list of CK_BYTE values within the attribute, if called in list context,
or return the RFC2279 string value within the attribute, if called in scalar
context. Returns undef if not set.

=item $attribute->type

Return the type of the attribute which is CKA_VALUE.

=back

=head1 NOTE

Derived from the RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface (Cryptoki)

=head1 AUTHOR

Jerry Lundström <lundstrom.jerry@gmail.com>

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs at https://github.com/dotse/p5-Crypt-PKCS11/issues .

=head1 LICENSE

  Copyright (c) 2015 Jerry Lundström <lundstrom.jerry@gmail.com>
  Copyright (c) 2015 .SE (The Internet Infrastructure Foundation)
  All rights reserved.

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
  are met:
  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
  "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
  A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
  HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
  DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
  THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
  (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
