=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 The Pod::WordML module

This is an abandoned module. You can adopt it if you like:

	https://pause.perl.org/pause/authenquery?ACTION=pause_04about#takeover

This is the I<README> for the L<Pod::WordML> Perl module. I created
this module to help write L<Effective Perl Programming|https://www.effectiveperlprogramming.com>
and I did the minimum I needed to do to support the features I needed.
In most places, I tried to program in a way that wouldn't limit future
development. Unless I need it again, I'm unlikely to work on it. Make
it your own!


You're probably looking at this because you don't know where
else to find what you're looking for. Read this once and you
might never have to read one again for any Perl module.

=head2 Documentation

To read about L<Pod::WordML>, look at the embedded documentation
in the module itself. Inside the distribution, you can format it
with L<perldoc|http://perldoc.perl.org/perldoc.html>:

	% perldoc lib/Pod/WordML.pm

If you have already installed the module, you can specify the module
name instead of the file location:

	% perldoc Pod::WordML

You can read the documentation and inspect the meta data on one of the
CPAN web interfaces, such as
L<MetaCPAN|http://www.metacpan.org/module/Pod::WordML>.

The standard module documentation has example uses in the SYNOPSIS
section, but you can also look in the I<examples/> directory (if it's
there), or look at the test files in I<t/>.

=head2 Installation

You can install this module with a CPAN client, which will resolve
and install the dependencies:

	% cpan Pod::WordML
	% cpanm Pod::WordML

You can also install directly from the distribution directory, which
will also install the dependencies:

	% cpan .
	% cpanm .

You could install just this module manually:

	% perl Makefile.PL
	% make
	% make test
	% make install

You probably don't want to do that unless you're fiddling with the
module and only want to run the tests without installing anything.

=head2 Source location

The meta data, such as the source repository and bug tracker, is in
I<Makefile.PL> or the I<META.*> files it creates. You can find that on
those CPAN web interfaces, but you can also look at files directly in
the source repository:

=over 4

=item *	L<https://github.com/CPAN-Adoptable-Modules/pod-wordml>

=back

=head2 Copyright and License

You should have received a I<LICENSE> file, but the license is also noted
in the module files. About the only thing you can't do is pretend that
you wrote code that you didn't.

=head2 Good luck!

Enjoy,

brian d foy, bdfoy@cpan.org

=cut
