= Fighting WikiSpam =

In an ideal Wiki world, the Wiki community is so active, its members
manually fix vandalism as soon as it happens.  To make this recovery
process easier, PurpleWiki allows you to overwrite the current
(presumably vandalized) version of a page with an older version.

You can do this one of two ways.  You can select "View other
revisions" at the bottom of a page, then select "Edit" of the revision
you want to recover.  Or, you can view the revision first, and click
on "Recover this text" at the bottom of that page.

Both of these functions do exactly the same thing: It takes you to an
edit page with the text of the old revision.  When you save your
changes, ''it does not overwrite the old revision.''  It creates a new
version of the page with the old text.

If your Wiki does not host the ideal Wiki community (and most don't),
there are other mechanisms for fighting WikiSpam.  One is to identify
the responsible IP address or hostname and place it in a file called
{{{banlist}}} in your {{{wikidb}}} directory.  Be careful that you are
not banning an address that is also the source of legitimate users.

Another is to require login to edit pages.  To do this, simply
uncomment {{{<nowiki>LoginToEdit</nowiki>}}} in your config file.
You'll also want to modify the common/pagebar.tt so that the "Edit"
link does not appear if {{{userName}}} is not defined (additions in
'''bold'''):

{{{
[% IF editUrl %]
<div class="pagebar">
[% IF revision %]
'''[% IF userName %]'''
<a href="[% editUrl %]">Recover this text</a> |
'''[% END %]'''
<a href="[% pageUrl %]">View current revision</a>
</div>
[% ELSE %]
'''[% IF userName %]'''
<a href="[% editUrl %]">Edit text of this page</a> |
'''[% END %]'''
<a href="[% revisionsUrl %]">View other revisions</a>
</div>
[% END %]
[% ELSIF showDiff %]
<div class="pagebar">
<a href="[% revisionsUrl %]">View other revisions</a>
</div>
[% END %]
}}}
