
=pod

=head1 NAME

Starch::Extending - How to alter the behavior of Starch.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Starch provides almost limitless ways to extend how it works.  This is
done by creating plugins and stores.

=head1 PLUGINS

Plugins can modify any of the manager (L<Starch::Manager>), state
(L<Starch::State>), and store (L<Starch::Store>) classes to extend
functionality.

A plugin may extend several of these classes, via plugin bundles, or just one.  A common
setup is a plugin bundle which adds arguments to the manager object and then adds logic
to the state objects which acts upon the arguments.

See L<Starch::Plugin::CookieArgs> for a basic example plugin.  See
L<Starch::Manual/PLUGINS> for more existing plugins.

See the SYNOPSIS in L<Starch::Plugin::Bundle>, L<Starch::Plugin::ForManager>,
L<Starch::Plugin::ForState>, and L<Starch::Plugin::ForStore> documentation
for some decent boilerplate for writing new plugins.

Plugins and plugin bundles are applied by L<Starch::Factory>, which itself
acts as a dynamic plugin bundle.

=head1 STORES

Stores provide the persistence layer for Starch by exposing a generic
interface on top of the driver code which communicates with the persistent
backend (such as a database).

A store must implement the L</set>, L</get>, and L</remove> methods and consume
the L<Starch::Store> role.  Writing new stores is generally a trivial process where
the store class does nothing more than glue those three methods with some underlying
implementation such as L<DBI> or L<CHI>.

The L<Starch::Store::CHI> store is a good example store to use for
building new store classes.  See L<Starch::Manual/STORES> for more existing stores.

Stores should be written so that the underlying driver object (the C<$dbh>
for a DBI store, for example) can be passed as an argument.   This allows
the user to utilize L<Starch::Manual/METHOD PROXIES> to build their own driver objects.

A state's expires duration is stored in the state data under the
L<Starch::Manager/expires_state_key>.  This should B<not> be considered
as anything meaningful to the store, since stores can have their
L<Starch::Store/max_expires> argument set which will automatically
change the value of the C<expiration> argument passed to C<set>.

=head2 REQUIRED METHODS

Stores must implement three methods for setting, getting, and removing
state data.  These methods receive a state ID and a namespace array ref
as their first two arguments.  The combination of these two values should
identify a unique location in the store.  They can be combined to create
a single key string using L<Starch::Store/stringify_key>.

A more detailed description of the methods that a store must
implement:

=head3 set

Sets the data for the key.  The C<$expires> value will always be set and
will be either C<0> or a positive integer representing the number of seconds
in the future that this state data should be expired.  If C<0> then the
store may expire the data whenever it chooses.

=head3 get

Returns the data for the given key.  If the data was not found then
C<undef> is returned.

=head3 remove

Deletes the data for the key.  If the data does not exist then
this is just a no-op.

=head2 EXCEPTIONS

Stores should detect issues and throw exceptions loudly.  If the user
would like to automatically turn store exceptions into log messages
they can use the L<Starch::Plugin::LogStoreExceptions> plugin.

=head2 REAPING EXPIRED STATES

Stores may choose to support an interface for deleting old state data
suitable for a cronjob.  To do this two methods must be declared,
L</can_reap_expired> and L</reap_expires>.  See
L<Starch::Store::Amazon::DynamoDB> for an example of a store which
supports this feature.

The actual implementation of how to reap old state data is a per-store
and is something that will differ greatly between them.

Consider adding extra arguments to your store class to control how state
reaping functions.  For example, a DBI store may allow the user to reap
the states in batches, and a DynamoDB store may allow the user to specify
a secondary global index to do the scan on.



=head1 TESTING

All plugin and store modules should use L<Test::Starch> to ensure that
they have not broken the core functionality of Starch.

=head1 EXCEPTIONS

Exceptions for known issues should be thrown using L<Starch::Util/croak>
which automatically internalizes all core Starch packages so that the
error will report the caller in the user's code.  In non-core stores and
plugins it is important that you localize the package in Carp so that
the errors point to the user's code as the caller, for example in a
store you could localize the package in the get, set, and remove methods:

    package My::Store;
    use Moo;
    use Carp qw();
    with 'Starch::Store';
    sub get {
        local $Carp::Internal{ (__PACKAGE__) } = 1;

        ...
    }

This is especially important for plugins where you are often augmenting
existing methods which may themselves be croak()ing, you don't want your
plugin's code to be reported at the source of the known error.

=head1 EXTENDING BUILD

The L<Moo> BUILD method doesn't play well with roles.  If a role provides
provides a BUILD method and then the class which consumes the role also
defines a BUILD method the class will win and the role's BUILD method will
never be called.  To get around this the L<Starch::Manager> class, the
L<Starch::State> class, and the L<Starch::Store> role declare BUILD methods.
Any plugin or store which wishes to extend the BUILD method should do so
via an C<after> method modifier as in:

    after BUILD => sub{
        ...
    };

=head1 INTERNALS

                                                          +------+
                                                          v      |
    +------------------------+       +------------------------+  |
    |      1. manager        | ----> |       3. store         |--+
    |   (Starch::Manager)    | < - - |     (Starch::Store)    |
    +------------------------+       +------------------------+
                ^    |
                |    |
                |    +---------------------------+
                |                                V
    +------------------------+       +------------------------+
    |      4. session        |       |      2. factory        |
    |   (Starch::Session)    |       |   (Starch::Factory)    |
    +------------------------+       +------------------------+

This diagram shows which objects hold references to other objects.  Solid
lines depict a hard reference while dashed lines depict a weak reference.
Weak references are used to avoid memory leaks.

=over

=item 1.

B<manager> - The manager is the entry point for configuration and retrieving
session objects.  It holds a strong reference to the factory and the store.
The manager doesn't have much logic in and of itself, as most of the compile-time
work is handled by the factory, and the runtime work by the sessions and store.

=item 2.

B<factory> - The factory handles constructing anonymous classes from base
classes and roles.

=item 3.

B<store> - The store does all of the backend heavy-lifting.  It holds a
weak reference to the manager so that it can, primarily, get at the factory
object and create sub-stores.  The L<Starch::Store::Layered> store depends
on this functionality to create the inner and outer sub-stores.

=item 4.

B<session> - The session provides the runtime public interface to the store
and other parts of starch.  It holds a strong reference to the manager.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS AND LICENSE

See L<Starch/AUTHOR>, L<Starch/CONTRIBUTORS>, and L<Starch/LICENSE>.

=cut

