=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::WSS::BasicAuth - username/password security

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::WSS::BasicAuth
   is a XML::Compile::WSS

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # you need a few constants
 use XML::Compile::WSS::Util  qw/:utp11/;

 # used in combination with any other XML schema
 my $auth = XML::Compile::WSS::BasicAuth->new
   ( schema   => $anything
   , username => $user
   , password => $password
   );

 # connects itself to a WSDL
 my $wss  = XML::Compile::SOAP::WSS->new;
 my $wsdl = XML::Compile::WSDL11->new($wsdlfn);
 my $auth = $wss->basicAuth
   ( ... same params, except 'schema'
   );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The generic Web Service Security protocol is implemented by the super
class L<XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS>.  This extension implements "basic authentication",
i.e. username/password validation.

You can best use digested passwords (UTP11_PDIGEST)  In that case,
a timestamp, a nonce and SHA1 hashing will keep the password a secret.

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"METHODS">.
 
=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"Constructors">.
 
=over 4

=item XML::Compile::WSS::BasicAuth-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

 -Option     --Defined in       --Default
  created                         undef
  nonce                           'RANDOM'
  password                        <required>
  prepare      XML::Compile::WSS  'ALL'
  pwformat                        UTP11_PTEXT
  schema       XML::Compile::WSS  undef
  username                        <required>
  version      XML::Compile::WSS  undef
  wss_version  XML::Compile::WSS  '1.1'
  wsu_Id                          undef

=over 2

=item created => DATETIME

See L<XML::Compile::WSS::dateTime()|XML::Compile::WSS/"Helpers"> for choices of DATETIME.

[1.10] The caller of the operation may also pass a C<wsu_Created>
parameter, with the same formatting power.

=item nonce => STRING|CODE|'RANDOM'|undef

Only used then the password is passed as digest.  This will cause the
C<wsse:Nonce> element.

[1.10] You may add C<wsse_Nonce> to each operation call,
to overrule the global setting.

When you pass a CODE, it will get called for each message to produce a
STRING. The constant text 'RANDOM' will have a random nonce generator
being called at each message.

=item password => STRING

The password in plain text.  Use pwformat digest to send it encrypted
over the network.

=item prepare => 'READER'|'WRITER'|'ALL'|'NONE'

=item pwformat => UTP11_PTEXT|UTP11_PDIGEST

With C<UTP11_PTEXT>, the plain-text version of the password is shown.
If PTWTYPE IS C<UTP11_PDIGEST>, the plain-text password will be
encrypted with SHA1.  The %options can be used to salt the digest
with "nonce" and/or "created" information before the encryption.

=item schema => an L<XML::Compile::Cache|XML::Compile::Cache> object

=item username => STRING

=item version => STRING

=item wss_version => '1.1'|MODULE

=item wsu_Id => STRING

Adds a C<wsu:Id> attribute to the created element.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

Extends L<"Attributes" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"Attributes">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<created>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<nonce>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<password>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schema>()

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Attributes">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<username>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<wssVersion>()

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Attributes">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<wsuId>()

=back

=head2 Apply

Extends L<"Apply" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"Apply">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<check>($security)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Apply">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<create>($doc, $security, $data)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Apply">

=back

=head2 Helpers

Extends L<"Helpers" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"Helpers">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<dateTime>($time|$string|HASH)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Helpers">

=back

=head2 Internals

Extends L<"Internals" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"Internals">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<loadSchemas>($schema, $version)

=item XML::Compile::WSS::BasicAuth-E<gt>B<loadSchemas>($schema, $version)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Internals">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<writerHookWsuId>($type)

Inherited, see L<XML::Compile::WSS/"Internals">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

Extends L<"DETAILS" in XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS/"DETAILS">.
 
=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-WSS distribution version 1.14,
built on May 08, 2017. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile> .
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2011-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the Artistic license.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/artistic.html>

