=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::WSS::Util - constants for XML::Compile::WSS

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::WSS::Util
   is a Exporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use XML::Compile::WSS::Util qw/:wss11/;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module collects constants used by various standards related
to the Web Service Security (WSS) group of W3C.

These constants may also be used by other applications: they are
not limited to the L<XML::Compile::WSS|XML::Compile::WSS> module. Please inform me
when you use this list in combination with other applications.

=head1 CONSTANTS

=head2 Export TAG :wss11

  WSS_11   WSSE_10      DSIG_NS      DSIG11_NS    GHC_NS
  WSU_10   WSS11MODULE  DSIG_MORE_NS XENC_NS      DSP_NS
  WSM_10   XTP_10	WSU_NS

=head2 Export tag :xtp10

Defines convenient constants in the x509 namespace. See
F<http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-x509-token-profile-1.0.pdf>

  XTP10_X509   XTP10_X509v3   XTP10_X509PKI   XTP10_X509PKC

=head2 Export tag :wsm10

Defines convenient constants in the soap-messages namespace.  See
F<http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-soap-message-security-1.0.pdf >

  WSM10_BASE64    WSM10_STR_TRANS

=over 4

=item B<wsm_decoded>($encoding, $bytes)

Decode the sequence of $bytes from the given encoding.

=item B<wsm_encoded>($encoding, $bytes)

Encode the sequence of $bytes into the preferred.

=back

=head2 Export tag :wsm11

[1.08] Defines convenient constants in the soap-messages namespace.  See
F<http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss-m/wss/v1.1.1/os/wss-SOAPMessageSecurity-v1.1.1-os.html>

=head2 Export tag C<:utp11>

Defines constants for the username-token-profile.
See F<http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/v1.1/wss-v1.1-spec-os-UsernameTokenProfile.pdf>

  UTP11_PTEXT   UTP11_PDIGEST   UTP11_USERNAME

=head2 Export tag :dsig

Defines convenient constants for signature reference URIs, mainly specified in
F<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-xmldsig-core-20080610/>

  DSIG_NS           DSIG_MGMT_DATA      DSIG_XML11_NO_COMM
  DSIG_SIGPROPS     DSIG_X509_CERT      DSIG_XML11_COMMENTS
  DSIG_OBJECT       DSIG_SHA1           DSIG_XMLEXC_NO_COMM
  DSIG_MANIFEST     DSIG_BASE64         DSIG_XMLEXC_COMMENTS
  DSIG_DSA_KV       DSIG_HMAC_SHA1      DSIG_XSLT
  DSIG_RSA_KV       DSIG_DSA_SHA1       DSIG_XPATH
  DSIG_X509_DATA    DSIG_RSA_SHA1       DSIG_ENV_SIG
  DSIG_PGP_DATA     DSIG_XML10_NO_COMM
  DSIG_SPKI_DATA    DSIG_XML10_COMMENTS

=head2 Export tag :dsigm (dsigm-more)

Defines constants defined by RFC4050 and RFC4051.

=over 4

=item * RFC4050 Using the ECDSA for XML Digital Signatures F<http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4050.txt>

=item * RFC4051 Additional XML Security Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs) F<http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4051.txt>

=back

  DSIGM_MD5             DSIGM_ECDSA_SHA224    DSIGM_CAM192
  DSIGM_SHA224          DSIGM_ECDSA_SHA256    DSIGM_CAM256
  DSIGM_SHA384          DSIGM_ECDSA_SHA384    DSIGM_KW_CAM128
  DSIGM_HMAC_MD5        DSIGM_ECDSA_SHA512    DSIGM_KW_CAM192
  DSIGM_HMAC_SHA224     DSIGM_ESIGN_SHA1      DSIGM_KW_CAM256
  DSIGM_HMAC_SHA256     DSIGM_ESIGN_SHA224    DSIGM_PSEC_KEM
  DSIGM_HMAC_SHA384     DSIGM_ESIGN_SHA256    DSIGM_KV
  DSIGM_HMAC_SHA512     DSIGM_ESIGN_SHA384    DSIGM_RETR_METHOD
  DSIGM_HMAC_RIPEMD160  DSIGM_ESIGN_SHA512    DSIGM_KEY_NAME
  DSIGM_RSA_MD5         DSIGM_DSA_SHA256      DSIGM_RAW_X509
  DSIGM_RSA_SHA256      DSIGM_CURVE_URN       DSIGM_RAW_PGP
  DSIGM_RSA_SHA384      DSIGM_XPTR            DSIGM_RAW_SPKIS
  DSIGM_RSA_SHA512      DSIGM_ARCFOUR         DSIGM_PKCS7_DATA
  DSIGM_ECDSA_SHA1      DSIGM_CAM128          DSIGM_RAW_PKCS7_DATA

=head2 Export tag :dsig11

Defines convenient constants for the extensions on dsig, defined in
F<http://www.w3.org/TR/2011/CR-xmldsig-core1-20110303/>

  DSIG11_NS       DSIG11_EC_KV    DSIG11_DER_KV   DSIG_X509_CERT

=head2 Export tag :xenc

Defines convenient constants for encryption referencing URIs, mainly
specified in F<http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/REC-xmlenc-core-20021210/>

  XENC_NS         XENC_PROPS      XENC_AES128     XENC_DH
  XENC_MIME_TYPE  XENC_SHA256     XENC_AES192     XENC_DH_KV
  XENC_ELEMENT    XENC_SHA512     XENC_AES256     XENC_KW_3DES
  XENC_CONTENT    XENC_RIPEMD160  XENC_RSA_1_5    XENC_KW_AES128
  XENC_KEY        XENC_3DES       XENC_RSA_OAEP   XENC_KW_AES192
  XENC_DSIG       XENC_KW_AES256

=head2 Export tag :xghc

Defines convenient constants for generic hybrid
algorithm referencing URIs, as specified in
F<http://www.w3.org/TR/2011/CR-xmlsec-generic-hybrid-20110303/>

  GHC_NS      GHC_GENERIC     GHC_RSAES_KEM     GHC_ECIES_KEM

=head2 Export tag :dsp

Defines constants for "Digital signature properties" as specified in
F<http://www.w3.org/TR/2011/CR-xmldsig-properties-20110303/>

  DSP_NS

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-WSS distribution version 1.14,
built on May 08, 2017. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile> .
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2011-2017 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the Artistic license.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/artistic.html>

