=pod

=head1 NAME

PDF::OCR2::Page

=head1 SYNOPSIS
   
   use PDF::OCR2;

   my $path = './file.pdf';
   my $pdf = PDF::OCR2->new($path);

   my $page    = $pdf->page(1);     

   $page->abs_pdf;
   
   $page->abs_images;
   
   $page->abs_images_count;
   
   $page->text;
   
   $page->text_length;   
            

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Extract a pdf page document's text, from inside the document and if there are images, from the images via
tesseract ocr.

Mostly meant to be used by PDF::OCR2.

=head1 METHODS

If you pass abs_path argument to constructor, and the file is not on disk, returns undef.

=head2 new()

Arg is hashref. Must have abs_pdf to pdf file.
Optionally, argument is abs path to file.
If no abs_pdf is provided or it does not exist on disk, throws exception.

   my $p = PDF::OCR::Page->new('./file.pdf');
   
   my $p = PDF::OCR::Page->new({ abs_pdf => './file.pdf' });

=head2 abs_pdf()

Argument is path to pdf representing one (1) page.
Must be on disk.
Perl setget method.

=head2 abs_images()

Returns aref of images, returns list in list context, array ref otherwise.
Uses PDF::GetImages, slow.

   my $imgs = $p->abs_images;
   my @imgs = $p->abs_images;

=head2 abs_images_count()

Takes no argument. Returns ammount of images found in page.

=head2 text()

Takes no argument.
Returns all text, images plus text.
Returns empty string if none.

=head2 text_length()

Takes no argument.
Returns number, length of the text.
Returns 0 if none.

=head1 CLASS VARIABLES

Defaults shown.

Eval pdf with PDF::API2 for correctness/etc.

   $PDF::OCR2::CHECK_PDF = 0;

Do not clean up trash when DESTROY

   $PDF::OCR2::Page::NO_TRASH_CLEANUP = 0;

Debug on

   $PDF::OCR2::Page::DEBUG = 0;

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<PDF::OCR2> - parent package.

=head1 AUTHOR

Leo Charre leocharre at cpan dot org

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2008 Leo Charre. All rights reserved.

=head1 LICENSE

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself, i.e., under the terms of the "Artistic License" or the "GNU General Public License".

=head1 DISCLAIMER

This package is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

See the "GNU General Public License" for more details.





