=encoding ISO8859-1

=head1 NAME

DBIx::DataModel::Doc::Glossary - Terms used in DBIx::DataModel documentation

=head1 DOCUMENTATION CONTEXT

This chapter is part of the C<DBIx::DataModel> manual.

=over

=item * 

L<SYNOPSIS AND DESCRIPTION|DBIx::DataModel>

=item * 

L<DESIGN|DBIx::DataModel::Doc::Design>

=item * 

L<QUICKSTART|DBIx::DataModel::Doc::Quickstart>

=item *

L<REFERENCE|DBIx::DataModel::Doc::Reference>

=item *

L<COOKBOOK|DBIx::DataModel::Doc::Cookbook>

=item *

L<INTERNALS|DBIx::DataModel::Doc::Internals>

=item *

GLOSSARY

=back



=head1 GLOSSARY

=head2 A


=over

=item anonymous role

An empty L</"role name"> in an L</association> declaration, expressed
by characters C<--> or by the word C<'none'>. This tells
C<DBIx::DataModel> that no L</"path method"> should be generated
for this side of the association.


=item API

Application Programming Interface, the set of public attributes,
methods, arguments, return values for interacting with a software 
component.

=item association

Relationship between tables. 
In L</UML>, an association declaration states what are the 
participating tables, what are the L<multiplicities|/multiplicity>,
and optionally gives names to the association itself and to the
roles of the participating tables.
An association declaration in C<DBIx::DataModel> involves similar 
information, except that no more than two tables can participate,
and at least one role name is mandatory.

=item association end

A term sometimes used in UML literature as synonym to
L</"role name">.

=back

=head2 C

=over

=item component

The second participant in a L</composition> relationship, i.e.
some object which "is part of" another object. A component object
cannot live outside of its composite object.

=item compatibility layer

A module, loaded on demand, that emulates the API of former versions 
of C<DBIx::DataModel>.

=item composite

The first participant in a L</composition> relationship, i.e.
some object which "contains" another object. If the composite
object is deleted, all its components are also deleted.

=item composition

An L</association> which additionally states that records of one
table (components) cannot exist outside of their composite class;
therefore when the composite is destroyed, the components must
be destroyed as well (cascaded delete).

=item column

Within a L</row>, a column is a scalar value 
corresponding to a given column name. 
Within a L</table> or L</view>, a column is a 
a list of scalar values obtained by selecting the
same column name in every row of the data source.
Unlike most other Perl L<ORMs|/ORM>, 
C<DBIx::DataModel> has no class for
representing a column: since a row is just 
a blessed hashref, a column is just a value in that hashref.
As a matter of fact, most columns are unknown to
the C<DBIx::DataModel> layer; they are just 
passthrough information, directly propagated from the 
L<DBI|DBI> layer to the application layer.

=item column type

A collection of callback functions or I<handlers>, 
declared in a L</schema> through the 
L<Type()|DBIx::DataModel::Doc::Reference/"Type()">
method. This column type can then be associated with
various column names in various tables; as a result, 
the C<from_DB> and C<to_DB> handlers will be called 
automatically, respectively  after reading a value
from the database or before writing a value to the database.

=item compile time

Strictly speaking, Perl is not a compiled language; 
but liberally speaking, the code that runs in the initial
phases of a perl program (BEGIN, CHECK, INIT) can be named
"compile time". 

Within C<DBIx::DataModel>, we speak of "compile-time methods"
for declarations like C<Schema(...)>, C<Table(...)>, 
C<Association(...)>, because these declarations
usually belong to a module that will be
loaded through L<use|perlfunc/use>, and therefore will be 
executed at compile-time. 

=back

=head2 D

=over

=item database schema

A container within the database management system for holding tables
and other database objects.  By default, table names are looked up
within the default schema of the current database session; but if
multiple schemata are supported, table names may be prefixed by the name
of another schema :  C<SELECT * FROM FOREIGN_SCHEMA.TABLE_NAME WHERE ...>.

Not to be confounded with a L</schema> at the C<DBIx::DataModel> level.

=item database view

A L</view> declared within the database through an SQL definition of shape
C<CREATE VIEW view_name AS SELECT ...>.

=item DB

DataBase

=item DBI

The generic database-independent interface for Perl -- see L<DBI>.

=item DBIC

Abbreviation for L<DBIx::Class>, another L</ORM> for Perl.

=item DBIDM

Abbreviation for C<DBIx::DataModel>.

=item dbh

A DBI database handle, created by a call to L<DBI/connect>.

=back

=head2 F

=over

=item fast statement 

A L</statement> in which each row from the database will be retrieved
into the same memory location, using DBI's L<fetch|DBI/fetch> and
L<bind_columns|DBI/bind_columns> methods. This is the fastest way to
get data, but it requires special care to handle each row immediately,
before that row gets overwritten by the next row.


=item foreign key

A column or set of columns that contains the primary key
of another table.

=back

=head2 I

=over

=item impedance mismatch

Term used in ORM literature to express the gap between database
concepts and object-oriented concepts. The challenge of ORM design
is to find the best way to reduce the "impedance mismatch".

=item inner join

The default form of L</join>, that excludes null values
in the join condition. 
Within C<DBIx::DataModel>, inner joins are inferred automatically
from the L<multiplicities|/multiplicity> in L<associations|/association>,
or may be explicitly required with a bidirectional arrow: 
C<< ->join(qw/table <=> role1 <=> role2/) >>.

=item invocant

The subject of a method call. It can be either a Perl class or a Perl object.

=back

=head2 J

=over

=item JDBC

Standard API to access databases from Java code.
Perl code can work with JDBC databases through the L<DBD::JDBC> proxy driver.

The JDBC API is richer than standard DBI for working 
with result sets : for example it has methods to move the cursor;
these can be exploited from C<DBIx::DataModel> through the 
L<DBIx::DataModel::Statement::JDBC|DBIx::DataModel::Statement::JDBC>
subclass.

=item join

A database operation which consists of taking rows from several sources
and producing new data rows. The result contains columns merged from 
those sources, according to the L</join condition>.
Joins are implemented as subclasses of 
L<DBIx::DataModel::Source::Join|DBIx::DataModel::Source::Join>
--- see the 
L<define_join()|DBIx::DataModel::Reference/define_join()> method.


=item join condition

A rule that states which rows from one source will be merged with 
which rows from another source while performing a join.
A typical join condition states that the
L</foreign key> of the first table should match the L</primary key>
of the second table.

=back


=head2 L

=over

=item left join

A particular form of L</join>, in which a row with an empty L</foreign key>
participates in the final result (while a regular join would ignore
that row).
Within C<DBIx::DataModel>, left joins are inferred automatically
from the L<multiplicities|/multiplicity> in L<associations|/association>,
or may be explicitly required with a directed arrow: 
C<< ->join(qw/table => role1 => role2/) >>.

=back


=head2 M

=over

=item many-to-many association

An association in which the maximum multiplicity is C<'*'> on both
sides. This is a conceptual notion; to be implemented in a database,
a many-to-many association needs  an intermediate linking table
for storing pairs of keys from both sides of the association.

=item meta-schema

An instance of
L<DBIx::DataModel::Meta::Schema|DBIx::DataModel::Meta::Schema>, 
corresponding to a given schema subclass
(a subclass of 
L<DBIx::DataModel::Schema|DBIx::DataModel::Schema>),
that holds information about the tables, associations, types, etc.
defined in that schema subclass.

=item multiplicity

A specification on one side of an L</association>, which
states the minimum and maximum number of times any given record 
may participate in the association. Typical multiplicities
are C<0..*>, C<0..1>, C<1..1>, C<1..*>. 
C<*> is a shorthand for C<0..*>, and 
C<1> is a shorthand for C<1..1>.

=item multi-schema mode

A way of using C<DBIx::DataModel> in which
a L</schema> subclass may have several instances, with
different database connexions. In this mode, tables and joins
are accessed through calls to a C<$schema> object; therefore that
reference must be passed around through the whole application.
Multi-schema mode is triggered by the first call to
L<DBIx::DataModel::Doc::Reference/"Schema::new()">.

The other, more simple mode is L</single-schema mode>.

=back

=head2 O

=over

=item OO

Object-Oriented.

=item ORM

Object-Relational Management system : a 
framework of classes and methods
to encapsulate interactions with a L</RDBMS>.
There are many ORMs for Perl; C<DBIx::DataModel> is just one of them.

=item ORM view

A L</view> declared within the ORM layer through a call to the
L<View()|DBIx::DataModel::Reference/View()> method; such views
are not known to the database.

=back

=head2 P

=over

=item path method

A method automatically installed in a L</table> class
when an L</association> is declared. Path methods
are used to get access to related records in other tables.

=item placeholder

In L</SQL>, placeholders are special marks positioned at specific places
in a SQL request, to denote that these places will be replaced by
actual values in a later I<binding> operation. SQL placeholders are usually
identified by a question mark C<'?'>; their order of appearance
must match the order in which values are bound.

At the C<DBIx::DataModel> level, there is an additional mechanism of
I<named parameters>, identified by a I<placeholder_prefix> defined
in the schema, which defaults to C<?:>. This gives additional
flexibility for binding values either I<before> or I<after> the statement
is composed. Examples are given in the
L<design document|DBIx::DataModel::Doc::Design/"Stepwise parameter binding through named placeholders">.


=item primary key

A column or set of columns that uniquely identifies any 
single row within a table.

=back

=head2 R

=over

=item record

Synonym to L</row>.

=item result kind

A way to transform data rows coming from the database
into a datastructure suitable for user's needs. Result kinds
are specified through the C<-result_as> argument to the
L<select()|DBIx::DataModel::Doc::Reference/"select()">
method. Each result kind is implemented by a subclass
of L<DBIx::DataModel::Schema::ResultAs>.


=item RDBMS

Relational DataBase Management System.


=item referential integrity rule

A rule declared within the L</"database schema"> in order
to ensure that the database will never contain dangling references :
alteration or deletion of a L</"primary key"> is only allowed
when the system contains no L</"foreign key"> pointing to that value.


=item role name

In UML notation, each side of an association may be decorated with a
"role name" (also called "association end" sometimes in the literature).
Role names are optional in UML, like many other modeling constructs;
they are used mainly when a same class participates in several associations,
in which case it helps to disambiguate the roles.
However, when declaring an 
L<Association()|DBIx::DataModel::Doc::Reference/"Association()">
in C<DBIx::DataModel>, role names are mandatory, because they 
are used to generate path methods for navigating between classes.


=item row

A single data record resulting from a SELECT query to the RDBMS.
Within C<DBIx::DataModel>, rows are plain hashrefs 
(C<< { column_name => column_value } >>), blessed as instances of 
a L</table> or a L</view>.

=back

=head2 S

=over

=item schema

An instance of a subclass of
L<DBIx::DataModel::Schema|DBIx::DataModel::Schema>, that
encapsulates a L</dbh> connexion to the database.



 When C<DBIx::DataModel> is used
in L</single-schema mode>, the term "schema" also refers to the
subclass itself, because that subclass has only one L</singleton> instance.

Not to be confounded with a L</database schema>. A Perl schema
may switch between several database schemata through the
L<db_schema()|DBIx::DataModel::Reference/db_schema()> method.


=item single-schema mode

The most simple way of using C<DBIx::DataModel>, in which
the L</schema> subclass has only one single instance.
The advantage in that mode is that tables and joins can be
accessed through class method calls, without the need to pass
around a C<$schema> reference through the whole application.
The disadvantage is that it is not possible to access several
database connexions simultaneously; it this is a need, then
use L</multi-schema mode>.

=item singleton

In mathematics, a set with only one member. In programming, a
class with only one instance.

=item source

Either a L</table> or a L</join>.

=item SQL

An acronym for L<Structured Query Language|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL>,
a standard adopted by most database vendors to express requests to a
relational database system.


=item SQLA

Abbreviation for L<SQL::Abstract>, a SQL generator module
used by several L</ORM>s.


=item SQLAM

Abbreviation for L<SQL::Abstract::More>, a subclass of
L</SQLA> which is the SQL generator module
used by C<DBIx::DataModel>.


=item statement 

An instance of L<DBIx::DataModel::Statement|DBIx::DataModel::Statement>, 
that encapsulates an SQL query. 
See L<DBIx::DataModel::Doc::Reference/"STATEMENT METHODS">.


=item sth

A DBI statement handle, created by a call to L<DBI/prepare>.
C<DBIx::DataModel> encapsulates C<$sth> handles within
L</statement> objects.

=back

=head2 T

=over


=item table

A subclass of L<DBIx::DataModel::Source::Table|DBIx::DataModel::Source::Table>, 
created by method L<DBIx::DataModel::Doc::Reference/Table()>, 
that encapsulates access to a database table (or database view).

=back

=head2 U

=over

=item UML

The I<Unified Modeling Language>, a graphical notation 
for modeling software system. An excellent quick reference for
UML is L<http://www.holub.com/goodies/uml/>.

Association definitions in C<DBIx::DataModel> 
are closely inspired by UML associations
(see L<DBIx::DataModel::Doc::Reference/"Association()">).

=back


=head2 V

=over

=item View

A SQL request packaged like a table, so that clients see it in the same
way as regular tables in the database. Views can be either
L<database views|/"database view">, declared directly within
the database, or L<ORM views|/"ORM view">, declared within
the ORM layer.

=back


