.TH PARDO "1" "November 2000" "Environment Utils" Byro
.nh
.SH NAME
pardo \- run sh(1) commands in parallel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pardo
[-v variable_name] [-c command_string] [-m max_processes] arg ...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Reads sh commands (from standard input if no -c option given)
and executes them once for each arg, setting an environment
variable to the current arg for each run.  If -v is not given
then "parvar" is used.  Execution of commands for each arg
occurs in parallel processes.  Standard output and standard error
output from parallel runs are serialized, so it looks the same as
it would if the runs for each arg were executed sequentially in
the order given.
.br
.SH RETURNS
.PP
Returns 0 status if all instances of the command string return 0.
Otherwise, returns the nonzero status of the first command string instance
to do likewise.  ("first" being relative to the order of the arguments
given to pardo.)
.br
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Display some help and exit
.TP
\fB\-v s, \-\-var=s\fR
The name of an environment variable which will be set to one of the
args when the sh(1) commands are executed.
.TP
\fB\-c s, \-\-commands=s\fR
A string to be executed by sh(1) once for each arg.  If not given, pardo
reads from standard input.
.TP
\fB\-m i, \-\-maxprocs=i\fR
The maximum number of worker processes to allow to exist at a time.
The default is 5.  When the maximum number of processes are spawned,
pardo waits until one completes before starting a new instance of the
command string.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBparvar\fR
This is the name of the environment variable that parvar uses by default to
pass arguments to your command string.  You can use the -v option to specify
a different name.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
   pardo -c 'makewhatis $parvar' /usr/man /usr/local/man
.PP
Builds indexes for each man directory in parallel.
(You wouldn't want to do this if your man directories are all on the same
partition.)
.PP
   pardo /usr/man /usr/local/man <<odrap
.br
      makewhatis \\$parvar
.br
   odrap
.PP
Same as above, but uses standard input to simulate the appearance of a
for loop.  Potentially reasonable for using pardo in scripts.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to <bdarrah@pacbell.net>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
sh(1)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Byron Darrah <bdarrah@pacbell.net>
