=head1 NAME

Sub::HandlesVia::HandlerLibrary::Scalar - library of scalar-related methods

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  package My::Class {
    use Moo;
    use Sub::HandlesVia;
    use Types::Standard 'Any';
    has attr => (
      is => 'rwp',
      isa => Any,
      handles_via => 'Scalar',
      handles => {
        'my_get' => 'get',
        'my_make_getter' => 'make_getter',
        'my_make_setter' => 'make_setter',
        'my_scalar_reference' => 'scalar_reference',
        'my_set' => 'set',
        'my_stringify' => 'stringify',
      },
    );
  }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a library of methods for L<Sub::HandlesVia>.

=head1 DELEGATABLE METHODS

=head2 C<< get() >>

Gets the current value of the scalar.

=head2 C<< make_getter() >>

Returns a getter coderef.

  my $object = My::Class->new( attr => 10 );
  my $getter = $object->my_make_getter;
  $object->_set_attr( 11 );
  say $getter->(); ## ==> 11

=head2 C<< make_setter() >>

Returns a setter coderef.

  my $object = My::Class->new( attr => 10 );
  my $setter = $object->my_make_setter;
  $setter->( 11 );
  say $object->attr; ## ==> 11

=head2 C<< scalar_reference() >>

Returns a scalar reference to the attribute value's slot within its object.

  my $object = My::Class->new( attr => 10 );
  my $ref = $object->my_scalar_reference;
  $$ref++;
  say $object->attr; ## ==> 11

=head2 C<< set( $value ) >>

Sets the scalar to a new value.

=head2 C<< stringify() >>

Gets the current value of the scalar, but as a string.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs to
L<https://github.com/tobyink/p5-sub-handlesvia/issues>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Sub::HandlesVia>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Toby Inkster E<lt>tobyink@cpan.orgE<gt>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

This software is copyright (c) 2020, 2022 by Toby Inkster.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES

THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

