=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Crypt::PKCS11 - Full-fledged PKCS #11 v2.30 interface

=head1 SYNPOSIS

  use Crypt::PKCS11;

  # Create the main PKCS #11 object, load a PKCS #11 provider .so library and initialize the module
  my $pkcs11 = Crypt::PKCS11->new;
  $pkcs11->load(...);
  $pkcs11->Initialize;

  # Create a new session and log in
  my $session = $pkcs11->OpenSession(...);
  $session->Login(...);

  # Create the public key template
  my $publicKeyTemplate = Crypt::PKCS11::Attributes->new->push(
      Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Encrypt->new->set(1),
      Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Verify->new->set(1),
      Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Wrap->new->set(1),
      Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::PublicExponent->new->set(0x01, 0x00, 0x01),
      Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Token->new->set(1),
      Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::ModulusBits->new->set(768)
  );

  # Create the private key template
  my $privateKeyTemplate = Crypt::PKCS11::Attributes->new->push(
      Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Private->new->set(1),
      Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Id->new->set(123),
      Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Sensitive->new->set(1),
      Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Decrypt->new->set(1),
      Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Sign->new->set(1),
      Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Unwrap->new->set(1),
      Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Token->new->set(1)
  );

  # Create a public and private key pair
  my ($publicKey, $privateKey) = $session->GenerateKeyPair(
      Crypt::PKCS11::CK_MECHANISM->new->set_mechanism(...),
      $publicKeyTemplate,
      $privateKeyTemplate);

  # Encrypt data
  my $data = ...;
  $session->EncryptInit(
      Crypt::PKCS11::CK_MECHANISM->new->set_mechanism(...),
      $privateKey);
  my $encryptedData = $session->Encrypt($data);
  $encryptedData .= $session->EncryptFinal;

  # Decrypt data
  $session->DecryptInit(
      Crypt::PKCS11::CK_MECHANISM->new->set_mechanism(...),
      $privateKey);
  $data = $session->Decrypt($encryptedData);
  $data .= $session->DecryptFinal;

  # Finalize the PKCS #11 module and unload the provider .so library
  $pkcs11->Finalize;
  $pkcs11->unload;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Crypt::PKCS11 provides a full-fledged PKCS #11 v2.30 interface for Perl and
together with a PKCS #11 provider .so library you can use all the functionality
a Hardware Security Module (HSM) has to offer from within Perl.

Other modules/pod sections included are:

=over 4

=item Crypt::PKCS11::XS

XS layer containing wrappers for all PKCS #11 functions that converts Perl data
structures to/from PKCS #11 specific data structures.

=item Crypt::PKCS11::Session

A module handling everything related to a PKCS #11 session.

=item Crypt::PKCS11::Object

A module that represent a PKCS #11 object which for example can be a public or
private key.

=item Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute

A module that represent a PKCS #11 attribute that are used in templates when for
example creating keys. This is only a base class, see
L<Crypt::PKCS11::Attributes> for a list of all available attributes.

=item Crypt::PKCS11::Attributes

A module to handle a set of Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute objects and also lists all
available PKCS #11 attributes.

=item Crypt::PKCS11::constant

List of all PKCS #11 constants.

=item Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::AttributeArray

A base module that handles nested PKCS #11 attributes.

=item Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::ByteArray

A base module that handles byte array attributes.

=item Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::CK_BBOOL

A base module that handles boolean attributes.

=item Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::CK_BYTE

A base module that handles one byte attributes.

=item Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::CK_DATE

A base module that handles date attributes.

=item Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::CK_ULONG

A base module that handles an unsigned long attributes.

=item Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::RFC2279string

A base module that handles RFC 2279 string attributes.

=item Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::UlongArray

A base module that handles unsigned long array attributes.

=item Crypt::PKCS11::Attribute::Value

A base module that handles attributes containing either a byte array or a binary
string.

=back

Following modules exist as an interface to its corresponding PKCS #11 C
structure, for more information about each structure see individual pod page and
PKCS #11 documentation.

=over 4

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_AES_CBC_ENCRYPT_DATA_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_AES_CCM_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_AES_CTR_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_AES_GCM_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_ARIA_CBC_ENCRYPT_DATA_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_CAMELLIA_CBC_ENCRYPT_DATA_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_CAMELLIA_CTR_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_CMS_SIG_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_DES_CBC_ENCRYPT_DATA_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_ECDH1_DERIVE_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_ECDH2_DERIVE_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_ECMQV_DERIVE_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_KEA_DERIVE_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_KEY_DERIVATION_STRING_DATA>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_KEY_WRAP_SET_OAEP_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_KIP_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_MECHANISM>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_OTP_PARAM>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_OTP_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_OTP_SIGNATURE_INFO>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_PBE_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_PKCS5_PBKD2_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_RC2_CBC_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_RC2_MAC_GENERAL_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_RC5_CBC_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_RC5_MAC_GENERAL_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_RC5_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_RSA_PKCS_OAEP_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_RSA_PKCS_PSS_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_SKIPJACK_PRIVATE_WRAP_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_SKIPJACK_RELAYX_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_SSL3_KEY_MAT_OUT>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_SSL3_KEY_MAT_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_SSL3_MASTER_KEY_DERIVE_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_SSL3_RANDOM_DATA>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_TLS_PRF_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_VERSION>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_WTLS_KEY_MAT_OUT>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_WTLS_KEY_MAT_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_WTLS_MASTER_KEY_DERIVE_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_WTLS_PRF_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_WTLS_RANDOM_DATA>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_X9_42_DH1_DERIVE_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_X9_42_DH2_DERIVE_PARAMS>

=item L<Crypt::PKCS11::CK_X9_42_MQV_DERIVE_PARAMS>

=back

=head1 QUALITY ASSURANCE AND TESTING

This module is currently tested on Ubuntu 12.04 and with SoftHSM version 1.3.7
and 2.0.0b2 as PKCS #11 providers / HSM backends. It uses Test::LeakTrace to
detect leaks and Devel::Cover to provide coverage reports. The goal is to always
be non-leaking and to have 100% coverage. See README.testing.md for more
information how to test.

  ---------------------------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------
  File                           stmt   bran   cond    sub    pod   time  total
  ---------------------------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------
  blib/lib/Crypt/PKCS11.pm      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   90.6  100.0
  ...Crypt/PKCS11/Attribute.pm  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    0.1  100.0
  ...tribute/AttributeArray.pm  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    0.0  100.0
  ...11/Attribute/ByteArray.pm  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    0.0  100.0
  ...S11/Attribute/CK_BBOOL.pm  100.0  100.0    n/a  100.0  100.0    0.0  100.0
  ...CS11/Attribute/CK_BYTE.pm  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    0.0  100.0
  ...CS11/Attribute/CK_DATE.pm  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    0.0  100.0
  ...S11/Attribute/CK_ULONG.pm  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    0.0  100.0
  ...ttribute/RFC2279string.pm  100.0  100.0    n/a  100.0  100.0    0.0  100.0
  ...1/Attribute/UlongArray.pm  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    0.0  100.0
  ...PKCS11/Attribute/Value.pm  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    0.0  100.0
  ...rypt/PKCS11/Attributes.pm  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    6.3  100.0
  ...ib/Crypt/PKCS11/Object.pm  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    1.7  100.0
  ...b/Crypt/PKCS11/Session.pm  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    1.1  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11.c                100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct.c         100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_aes.c     100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_aria.c    100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  ..._pkcs11_struct_camellia.c  100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_cms.c     100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_des.c     100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_ecdh1.c   100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_ecdh2.c   100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_ecmqv.c   100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_kea.c     100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_key.c     100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_kip.c     100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  ...pkcs11_struct_mechanism.c  100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_otp.c     100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_pbe.c     100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_pkcs5.c   100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_rc2.c     100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_rc5.c     100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_rsa.c     100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  ..._pkcs11_struct_skipjack.c  100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_ssl3.c    100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_tls.c     100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  ...t_pkcs11_struct_version.c  100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_wtls.c    100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  crypt_pkcs11_struct_x9.c      100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11.xs                     100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct.c               100.0  100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_aes.xs          100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_aria.xs         100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_camellia.xs     100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_cms.xs          100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_des.xs          100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_ecdh1.xs        100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_ecdh2.xs        100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_ecmqv.xs        100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_kea.xs          100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_key.xs          100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_kip.xs          100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_mechanism.xs    100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_otp.xs          100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_pbe.xs          100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_pkcs5.xs        100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_rc2.xs          100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_rc5.xs          100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_rsa.xs          100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_skipjack.xs     100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_ssl3.xs         100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_tls.xs          100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_version.xs      100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_wtls.xs         100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  pkcs11_struct_x9.xs           100.0    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a  100.0
  Total                         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
  ---------------------------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------

This module has been tested with the following PKCS #11 providers and operating
systems:

=over 4

=item *

Ubuntu Server 12.04 using SoftHSM version 1.3.7 and 2.0.0b2

=back

More platforms and PKCS #11 providers will be added in the future.

=head1 RETURN VALUES AND ERROR HANDLING

This is the general return value and error handling for all methods unless
otherwise stated.

On XS layer errors, when called from within these methods, all methods returns
false (0/undef) and the XS layer error can be retrieved with C<$pkcs11-E<gt>errno>
for the number and C<$pkcs11-E<gt>errstr> for the message.

For errors from the methods themself, the method will confess (croak) with the
error message.

=head1 CONSTANTS

All PKCS #11 constants (C #define's) can be imported by specifying the tag
:constant when using the module, see PKCS #11 documentation for a list of all
constants.

  use Crypt::PKCS11 qw(:constant);

There are also hashes for reverse lookup available, to get the name of the
constant in text, per constant section using the tag :constant_names, for
example if you wish to reverse lookup a mechanism you can use the C<%CKM_NAME>
hash.

  use Crypt::PKCS11 qw(:constant_names);
  ...
  print "Support for $CKM_NAME{$mechanism} found.\n";

Beside all constants that exists in PCKS #11 these have been added:

=over 4

=item CK_ULONG_SIZE

Contains the size of CK_ULONG type that will be different depending on the
operating system.

=back

=head1 METHODS

For more extensive documentation about the methods, data structures and types
please see http://www.cryptsoft.com/pkcs11doc/v230/ .

=over 4

=item $pkcs11 = Crypt::PKCS11->new

Returns a new Crypt::PKCS11 object.

=item $pkcs11->load ($so)

Loads the PKCS #11 provider .so library specified by C<$so>.

=item $pkcs11->unload

Unloads the PKCS #11 provider .so library, done automatically on destruction of
the object.

=item $pkcs11->Initialize ([initArgs => ... ])

Initialize the PKCS #11 library, this must be done before using the PKCS #11
library. The initialization arguments can be given as one hash reference or as
a hash.

The following initialization arguments can be used:

=over 4

=item flags

Bit flags specifying options for initialization.

=back

=item $pkcs11->Finalize

Finalize the PKCS #11 library, done automatically on destruction of the object.

=item < %hash || $hash_ref > = $pkcs11->GetInfo

Return information about the PKCS #11 library as a hash, if called in list
context, or as a hash reference, if called in scalar context.

Fields in hash are as follows:

=over 4

=item cryptokiVersion

Cryptoki interface version number, for compatibility with future revisions of this interface, as a hash reference.

=over 4

=item major

Major version part.

=item minor

Minor version part.

=back

=item manufacturerID

ID of the Cryptoki library manufacturer, padded with the blank character (' ').

=item flags

Bit flags reserved for future versions.

=item libraryDescription

Character-string description of the library, padded with the blank character (' ').

=item libraryVersion

Cryptoki library version number as a hash reference.

=over 4

=item major

Major version part.

=item minor

Minor version part.

=back

=back

=item < @array || $array_ref > = $pkcs11->GetSlotList ([$tokenPresent = undef])

Return a list of slot IDs as an array, if called in list context, or as an array
reference, if called in scalar context.

=over 4

=item $tokenPresent

Optional argument which is default to false. If set to true then only the slot
IDs which has tokens will be returned.

=back

=item < %hash || $hash_ref > = $pkcs11->GetSlotInfo ($slotID)

Return information about a slot as a hash, if called in list context, or as a
hash reference, if called in scalar context.

=over 4

=item $slotID

The slot ID to return information about.

=back

Fields in hash are as follows:

=over 4

=item slotDescription

Character-string description of the slot, padded with the blank character (' ').

=item manufacturerID

ID of the slot manufacturer, padded with the blank character (' ').

=item flags

Bits flags that provide capabilities of the slot, see PKCS #11 documentation for
the list of flags available.

=item hardwareVersion

Version number of the slot's hardware as a hash reference.

=over 4

=item major

Major version part.

=item minor

Minor version part.

=back

=item firmwareVersion

Version number of the slot's firmware as a hash reference.

=over 4

=item major

Major version part.

=item minor

Minor version part.

=back

=back

=item < %hash || $hash_ref > = $pkcs11->GetTokenInfo ($slotID)

Return information about tokens in a slot as a hash, if called in list context,
or as a hash reference, if called in scalar context.

=over 4

=item $slotID

The slot ID to return information about.

=back

Fields in hash are as follows:

=over 4

=item label

Application-defined label, assigned during token initialization, padded with the blank character (' ').

=item manufacturerID

ID of the device manufacturer, padded with the blank character (' ').

=item model

Model of the device, padded with the blank character (' ').

=item serialNumber

Character-string serial number of the device, padded with the blank character (' ').

=item flags

Bit flags indicating capabilities and status of the device, see PKCS #11 documentation for the list of flags available.

=item ulMaxSessionCount

Maximum number of sessions that can be opened with the token at one time by a single application.

=item ulSessionCount

Number of sessions that this application currently has open with the token.

=item ulMaxRwSessionCount

Maximum number of read/write sessions that can be opened with the token at one time by a single application.

=item ulRwSessionCount

Number of read/write sessions that this application currently has open with the token.

=item ulMaxPinLen

Maximum length in bytes of the PIN.

=item ulMinPinLen

Minimum length in bytes of the PIN.

=item ulTotalPublicMemory

The total amount of memory on the token in bytes in which public objects may be stored.

=item ulFreePublicMemory

The amount of free (unused) memory on the token in bytes for public objects.

=item ulTotalPrivateMemory

The total amount of memory on the token in bytes in which private objects may be stored.

=item ulFreePrivateMemory

The amount of free (unused) memory on the token in bytes for private objects.

=item hardwareVersion

Version number of hardware as a hash reference.

=over 4

=item major

Major version part.

=item minor

Minor version part.

=back

=item firmwareVersion

Version number of firmware as a hash reference.

=over 4

=item major

Major version part.

=item minor

Minor version part.

=back

=item utcTime

Current time as a character-string of length 16, represented in the format YYYYMMDDhhmmssxx (4 characters for the year; 2 characters each for the month, the day, the hour, the minute, and the second; and 2 additional reserved '0' characters). The value of this field only makes sense for tokens equipped with a clock, as indicated in the token information flags.

=back

=item < @array || $array_ref > = $pkcs11->GetMechanismList ($slotID)

Return a list of mechanism for a slot as an array, if called in list context, or
as an array reference, if called in scalar context.

=over 4

=item $slotID

The slot ID to return information about.

=back

=item < %hash || $hash_ref > = $pkcs11->GetMechanismInfo ($slotID, $mechanismType)

Return information about mechanism for a slot as a hash, if called in list
context, or as a hash reference, if called in scalar context.

=over 4

=item $slotID

The slot ID to return information about.

=item $mechanismType

The mechanism type to return information about.

=back

Fields in hash are as follows:

=over 4

=item ulMinKeySize

The minimum size of the key for the mechanism (whether this is measured in bits or in bytes is mechanism-dependent).

=item ulMaxKeySize

The maximum size of the key for the mechanism (whether this is measured in bits or in bytes is mechanism-dependent).

=item flags

Bit flags specifying mechanism capabilities.

=back

=item $pkcs11->InitToken ($slotID, [$pin = undef], $label)

Initialize a token.

=over 4

=item $slotID

The slot ID to initialize.

=item $pin

Optional argument that specifies the PIN to use when initializing.

=item $label

The label of the token.

=back

=item $session = $pkcs11->OpenSession ($slotID, [$flags = 0, $notifycb = undef])

Open a new PKCS #11 session and return a L<Crypt::PKCS11::Session> object.

=over 4

=item $slotID

The slot ID to open a session for.

=item $flags

Optional argument that indicates the type of session to open.

=item $notifycb

Optional argument for a callback CODE reference to be used when notifying the
application of certain events.

=back

=item $pkcs11->CloseAllSessions ($slotID)

Close all current session with the slot specified.

=over 4

=item $slotID

The slot ID to close sessions for.

=back

=item $pkcs11->WaitForSlotEvent ([$flags = 0])

Waits for a slot event, such as token insertion or token removal, to occur. Will
block unless the flag C<CKF_DONT_BLOCK> is used.

=over 4

=item $flags

Optional argument to determines whether or not the method blocks.

=back

=item $errno = $pkcs11->errno

Return the last error number, can be used after a method returns false.

=item $errstr = $pkcs11->errstr

Return the last error message, can be used after a method returns false.

=back

=head1 NOTE

Derived from the RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface (Cryptoki)

=head1 AUTHOR

Jerry Lundström <lundstrom.jerry@gmail.com>

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs at https://github.com/dotse/p5-Crypt-PKCS11/issues .

=head1 LICENSE

  Copyright (c) 2015 Jerry Lundström <lundstrom.jerry@gmail.com>
  Copyright (c) 2015 .SE (The Internet Infrastructure Foundation)
  All rights reserved.

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
  are met:
  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
  "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
  A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
  HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
  DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
  THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
  (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
