

=pod

=head1 NAME

ur update classes-from-db - Update class definitions (and data dictionary cache) to reflect changes in the database schema.



=head1 VERSION

This document describes ur update classes-from-db version 0.29.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

ur update classes-from-db [--class-name=?] [--data-source=?] [--force-check-all-tables] [--force-rewrite-all-classes] [--table-name=?] [CLASSES-OR-MODULES]



=head1 OPTIONAL ARGUMENTS

=over


=item class-name  I<List>

Update only the specified classes.

=item data-source  I<List>

Limit updates to these data sources

=item force-check-all-tables  I<Boolean>

By default we only look at tables with a new DDL time for changed database schema information.  This explicitly (slowly) checks each table against our cache.

=item noforce-check-all-tables  I<Boolean>

Make force-check-all-tables 'false'

=item force-rewrite-all-classes  I<Boolean>

By default we only rewrite classes where there are database changes.  Set this flag to rewrite all classes even where there are no schema changes.

=item noforce-rewrite-all-classes  I<Boolean>

Make force-rewrite-all-classes 'false'

=item table-name  I<List>

Update the specified table.

=item CLASSES-OR-MODULES

(undocumented)


=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION:

  
  Reads from the data sources in the current working directory's namespace,
  and updates the local class tree.
  
  This hits the data dictionary for the remote database, and gets changes there
  first.  Those changes are then used to mutate the class tree.
  
  If specific data sources are specified on the command-line, it will limit
  its database examination to just data in those data sources.  This command
  will, however, always load ALL classes in the namespace when doing this update,
  to find classes which currently reference the updated table, or are connected
  to its class indirectly.



=cut

