
=head1 NAME

Win32::GUI::Bitmap - Create bitmap resources

=head1 DESCRIPTION

[TBD]

=for comment $Id: per_package_method_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 METHODS

L<Common methods|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods> apply to most windows, controls and resources.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 new

B<new(FILENAME, [TYPE, X, Y, FLAGS])>

Creates a new Bitmap object reading from FILENAME; all other arguments
are optional. TYPE can be:

  0  bitmap (this is the default)
  1  icon
  2  cursor

You can eventually specify your desired size for the image with X and
Y and pass some FLAGS to the underlying LoadImage API (at your own risk)

If FILENAME is a string, then it is first tried as a resource
name, then a filename.  If FILENAME is a number it is tried
as a resource identifier.

Resources are searched for in the current exe (perl.exe unless
you have packed your application using perl2exe, PAR or similar),
then in the Win32::GUI GUI.dll, and finally as an OEM resource
identifier

See also the L<common options|Win32::GUI::Reference::Options>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Create

B<Create(WIDTH, HEIGHT, PLANES, BPP, DATA)>

[TBD]

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetDIBits

B<GetDIBits()>

The GetDIBits function retrieves the bits of the specified bitmap and copies them into a buffer using the specified format.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Info

B<Info()>

returns a four elements array containing the following information
about the bitmap: width, height, color planes, bits per pixel
or undef on errors




=for comment $Id: per_package_event_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 EVENTS

L<Common events|Win32::GUI::Reference::Events> apply to most windows and controls.





=for comment $Id: pod_postamble.tpl,v 1.2 2005/08/03 21:45:59 robertemay Exp $

=head1 VERSION

Documentation for Win32::GUI v1.13 created 26 Jul 2016

This document is autogenerated by the build process. Edits made here will be lost.
Edit F<docs/per_package.tpl> instead.

=head1 SUPPORT

Homepage: L<http://perl-win32-gui.sourceforge.net/>.

For further support join the users mailing list from the website
at L<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/perl-win32-gui-users>.  There is a searchable list archive at L<http://sourceforge.net/p/perl-win32-gui/mailman/perl-win32-gui-users/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENCE

Copyright (c) 1997..2016 Aldo Calpini. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.


