
=head1 NAME

Win32::GUI::Brush - Create and manipulate drawing Brush resources

=head1 DESCRIPTION

[TBD]

=for comment $Id: per_package_method_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 METHODS

L<Common methods|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods> apply to most windows, controls and resources.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 new

B<new(COLOR | %OPTIONS)>

Creates a new Brush object.

Allowed B<%OPTIONS> are:

  -style =>
    0 BS_SOLID
    1 BS_NULL
    2 BS_HATCHED
    3 BS_PATTERN
  -pattern => Win32::GUI::Bitmap object (valid for -style => BS_PATTERN)
  -hatch => (valid for -style => BS_HATCHED)
    0 HS_ORIZONTAL (-----)
    1 HS_VERTICAL  (|||||)
    2 HS_FDIAGONAL (\\\\\)
    3 HS_BDIAGONAL (/////)
    4 HS_CROSS     (+++++)
    5 HS_DIAGCROSS (xxxxx)
  -color => COLOR

See also the L<common options|Win32::GUI::Reference::Options>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Info

B<Info()>

Returns an associative array of information about the Brush object, with
the same options given when creating the Brush.




=for comment $Id: per_package_event_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 EVENTS

L<Common events|Win32::GUI::Reference::Events> apply to most windows and controls.





=for comment $Id: pod_postamble.tpl,v 1.2 2005/08/03 21:45:59 robertemay Exp $

=head1 VERSION

Documentation for Win32::GUI v1.13 created 26 Jul 2016

This document is autogenerated by the build process. Edits made here will be lost.
Edit F<docs/per_package.tpl> instead.

=head1 SUPPORT

Homepage: L<http://perl-win32-gui.sourceforge.net/>.

For further support join the users mailing list from the website
at L<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/perl-win32-gui-users>.  There is a searchable list archive at L<http://sourceforge.net/p/perl-win32-gui/mailman/perl-win32-gui-users/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENCE

Copyright (c) 1997..2016 Aldo Calpini. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.


