
=head1 NAME

Win32::GUI::DateTime - Create and manipulate datetime controls

=head1 DESCRIPTION

[TBD]

=for comment $Id: per_package_method_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 METHODS

L<Common methods|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods> apply to most windows, controls and resources.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 new

B<new(PARENT, %OPTIONS)>

Creates a new DateTime object;
can also be called as PARENT->AddDateTime(%OPTIONS).

Class specific B<%OPTIONS> are:

  -align  => 'right'/'left' (default 'left')
    The drop-down month calendar alignement.
  -format => 'shortdate', 'longdate', 'time'
    Control format type (Use local format date/time).
  -shownone => 0/1 (default 0)
    Allow no datetime (add a prefix checkbox).
  -updown   => 0/1 (default 0 for date, 1 for time format)
    Use updown control instead of the drop-down month calendar.

See also the L<common options|Win32::GUI::Reference::Options>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Format

B<Format(FORMAT)>

See L<SetFormat()|Win32::GUI::DateTime/SetFormat>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetDate

B<GetDate()>

Returns the date in the DateTime control in a three elements array (day, month, year).

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetDateTime

B<GetDateTime()>

See L<GetSystemTime()|Win32::GUI::DateTime/GetSystemTime>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetMonthCal

B<GetMonthCal()>

Retrieves the handle to a date and time picker's (DTP) child month calendar control.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetMonthCalColor

B<GetMonthCalColor(icolor)>

Retrieves the color for a given portion of the month calendar within a date and time picker (DTP) control.
icolor :

  MCSC_BACKGROUND = Retrieve the background color displayed between months.
  MCSC_MONTHBK = Retrieve the background color displayed within the month.
  MCSC_TEXT = Retrieve the color used to display text within a month.
  MCSC_TITLEBK = Retrieve the background color displayed in the calendar's title.
  MCSC_TITLETEXT = Retrieve the color used to display text within the calendar's title.
  MCSC_TRAILINGTEXT = Retrieve the color used to display header day and trailing day
                text. Header and trailing days are the days from the previous and following
                months that appear on the current month calendar.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetMonthCalFont

B<GetMonthCalFont(icolor)>

Retrieves the font that the date and time picker (DTP) control's child month calendar control is currently using.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetSystemTime

B<GetSystemTime()>

Returns the date and time in the DateTime control in a eight
elements array (year, month, day, dayofweek, hour, minute, second, millisecond).

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetTime

B<GetTime()>

Returns the time in the DateTime control in a four
elements array (hour, min, sec, msec).

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 IsNone

B<IsNone()>

Test if the DateTime control is None (control check box was not selected).

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetDate

B<SetDate(DAY, MONTH, YEAR)>

Sets the date in the DateTime control in a three elements array (day, month, year).

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetDateTime

B<SetDateTime(YEAR,MON, DAY, HOUR, MIN, SEC, [MSEC=0])>

See L<SetSystemTime()|Win32::GUI::DateTime/SetSystemTime>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetFormat

B<SetFormat(FORMAT)>

Sets the format for the DateTime control to the specified string.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetMonthCalColor

B<SetMonthCalColor(icolor,color)>

Sets the color for a given portion of the month calendar within a date and time picker (DTP) control.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetMonthCalFont

B<SetMonthCalFont(font,flag)>

Sets the font to be used by the date and time picker (DTP) control's child month calendar control.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetNone

B<SetNone(handle)>

Set none state in the DateTime control (control check box was selected).

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetSystemTime

B<SetSystemTime(YEAR,MON, DAY, HOUR, MIN, SEC, [MSEC=0])>

Sets the date time in the DateTime control

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetTime

B<SetTime(HOUR, MIN, SEC, [MSEC=0])>

Sets the time in the DateTime control in a four
elements array (hour, min, sec, [msec=0]).




=for comment $Id: per_package_event_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 EVENTS

L<Common events|Win32::GUI::Reference::Events> apply to most windows and controls.

=for comment $Id: per_package_event.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Change

B<Change()>

Sent when the datetime change. .

=for comment $Id: per_package_event.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 CloseUp

B<CloseUp()>

Sent when the user closes the drop-down month calendar. .

=for comment $Id: per_package_event.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 DropDown

B<DropDown()>

Sent when the user activates the drop-down month calendar..





=for comment $Id: pod_postamble.tpl,v 1.2 2005/08/03 21:45:59 robertemay Exp $

=head1 VERSION

Documentation for Win32::GUI v1.13 created 26 Jul 2016

This document is autogenerated by the build process. Edits made here will be lost.
Edit F<docs/per_package.tpl> instead.

=head1 SUPPORT

Homepage: L<http://perl-win32-gui.sourceforge.net/>.

For further support join the users mailing list from the website
at L<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/perl-win32-gui-users>.  There is a searchable list archive at L<http://sourceforge.net/p/perl-win32-gui/mailman/perl-win32-gui-users/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENCE

Copyright (c) 1997..2016 Aldo Calpini. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.


