
=head1 NAME

Win32::GUI::Font - Create font resources

=head1 DESCRIPTION

[TBD]

=for comment $Id: per_package_method_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 METHODS

L<Common methods|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods> apply to most windows, controls and resources.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 new

B<new(%OPTIONS)>

Creates a new Font object. %OPTIONS are:

  -size
  -height
  -width
  -escapement
  -orientation
  -weight
  -bold => 0/1
  -italic => 0/1
  -underline => 0/1
  -strikeout => 0/1
  -charset
  -outputprecision
  -clipprecision
  -family
  -quality
  -name
  -face

See also the L<common options|Win32::GUI::Reference::Options>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetMetrics

B<GetMetrics()>

Returns an associative array of information about the Font:

 -height
 -ascent
 -descent
 -ileading
 -eleading
 -avgwidth
 -maxwidth
 -overhang
 -aspectx
 -aspecty
 -firstchar
 -lastchar
 -breakchar
 -italic
 -underline
 -strikeout
 -flags
 -charset

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Info

B<Info()>

Returns an associative array of information about the Font, with
the same options given when creating the font.




=for comment $Id: per_package_event_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 EVENTS

L<Common events|Win32::GUI::Reference::Events> apply to most windows and controls.





=for comment $Id: pod_postamble.tpl,v 1.2 2005/08/03 21:45:59 robertemay Exp $

=head1 VERSION

Documentation for Win32::GUI v1.13 created 26 Jul 2016

This document is autogenerated by the build process. Edits made here will be lost.
Edit F<docs/per_package.tpl> instead.

=head1 SUPPORT

Homepage: L<http://perl-win32-gui.sourceforge.net/>.

For further support join the users mailing list from the website
at L<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/perl-win32-gui-users>.  There is a searchable list archive at L<http://sourceforge.net/p/perl-win32-gui/mailman/perl-win32-gui-users/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENCE

Copyright (c) 1997..2016 Aldo Calpini. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.


