
=head1 NAME

Win32::GUI::MDIFrame - Create and manipulate MDI Windows

=head1 DESCRIPTION

[TBD]

=for comment $Id: per_package_method_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 METHODS

L<Common methods|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods> apply to most windows, controls and resources.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 new

B<new(%OPTIONS)>

Creates a new MDI Client object.

Class specific B<%OPTIONS> are:

See also the L<common options|Win32::GUI::Reference::Options>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 AddMDIClient

B<AddMDIClient(%OPTIONS)>

See L<new Win32::GUI::MDIClient()|Win32::GUI::MDIClient/new>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 AddMenu

B<AddMenu()>

See L<new Win32::GUI::Menu()|Win32::GUI::Menu/new>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 AddNotifyIcon

B<AddNotifyIcon(%OPTIONS)>

See L<new Win32::GUI::NotifyIcon()|Win32::GUI::NotifyIcon/new>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 AddRebar

B<AddRebar(%OPTIONS)>

See L<new Win32::GUI::Rebar()|Win32::GUI::Rebar/new>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 AddSplitter

B<AddSplitter(%OPTIONS)>

See L<new Win32::GUI::Splitter()|Win32::GUI::Splitter/new>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 AddStatusBar

B<AddStatusBar(%OPTIONS)>

See L<new Win32::GUI::StatusBar()|Win32::GUI::StatusBar/new>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 AddTimer

B<AddTimer(NAME, ELAPSE)>

See L<new Win32::GUI::Timer()|Win32::GUI::Timer/new>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 AddToolbar

B<AddToolbar(%OPTIONS)>

See L<new Win32::GUI::Toolbar()|Win32::GUI::Toolbar/new>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Center

B<Center([Parent])>

Center the window vertically and horizontally in the Parent (Default: the Desktop window).
Parent can be either a Win32::GUI::Window or a hwind.
Return 1 on success, else 0.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetDC

B<GetDC()>

Returns the DC object associated with the window.




=for comment $Id: per_package_event_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 EVENTS

L<Common events|Win32::GUI::Reference::Events> apply to most windows and controls.

=for comment $Id: per_package_event.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Activate (Win32::GUI::Window)

B<Activate()>

Sent when the window is activated.

=for comment $Id: per_package_event.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Deactivate (Win32::GUI::Window)

B<Deactivate()>

Sent when the window is deactivated.

=for comment $Id: per_package_event.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 InitMenu (Win32::GUI::Window)

B<InitMenu(MENU)>

Sent when a menu is about to become active. It occurs when the user clicks
an item on the menu bar or presses a menu key. This allows the application
to modify the menu before it is displayed.

=for comment $Id: per_package_event.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Maximize (Win32::GUI::Window)

B<Maximize()>

Sent when the window is maximized.

=for comment $Id: per_package_event.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Minimize (Win32::GUI::Window)

B<Minimize()>

Sent when the window is minimized.

=for comment $Id: per_package_event.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Paint (Win32::GUI::Window)

B<Paint(DC)>

Sent when the window needs to be repainted.

Note that you get the DC of the window object in parameter,
and then Validate() the DC to inform Windows
that you painted the DC area (otherwise it will
continue to call the Paint event continuously).
Example:

  sub Graphic_Paint {
      my $DC = shift;
      $DC->MoveTo(0, 0);
      $DC->LineTo(100, 100);
      $DC->Validate();
  }

=for comment $Id: per_package_event.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Resize (Win32::GUI::Window)

B<Resize()>

Sent when the window is resized.

=for comment $Id: per_package_event.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Scroll (Win32::GUI::Window)

B<Scroll(SCROLLBAR, OPERATION, POSITION)>

Sent when one of the window scrollbars is moved. SCROLLBAR identifies
which bar was moved, 0 for horizontal and 1 for vertical.

OPERATION can be compared against one of the following constants:
SB_LINEUP, SB_LINELEFT, SB_LINEDOWN, SB_LINERIGHT, SB_PAGEUP
SB_PAGELEFT, SB_PAGEDOWN, SB_PAGERIGHT, SB_THUMBPOSITION,
SB_THUMBTRACK, SB_TOP, SB_LEFT, SB_BOTTOM, SB_RIGHT, SB_ENDSCROLL

Related messages: WM_HSCROLL, WM_VSCROLL

=for comment $Id: per_package_event.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 Terminate (Win32::GUI::Window)

B<Terminate()>

Sent when the window is closed.
The event should return -1 to terminate the interaction
and return control to the perl script; see L<Dialog()|Win32::GUI::MDIFrame/Dialog>.





=for comment $Id: pod_postamble.tpl,v 1.2 2005/08/03 21:45:59 robertemay Exp $

=head1 VERSION

Documentation for Win32::GUI v1.13 created 26 Jul 2016

This document is autogenerated by the build process. Edits made here will be lost.
Edit F<docs/per_package.tpl> instead.

=head1 SUPPORT

Homepage: L<http://perl-win32-gui.sourceforge.net/>.

For further support join the users mailing list from the website
at L<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/perl-win32-gui-users>.  There is a searchable list archive at L<http://sourceforge.net/p/perl-win32-gui/mailman/perl-win32-gui-users/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENCE

Copyright (c) 1997..2016 Aldo Calpini. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.


