
=head1 NAME

Win32::GUI::ProgressBar - Create and manipulate progress bar controls

=head1 DESCRIPTION

[TBD]

=for comment $Id: per_package_method_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 METHODS

L<Common methods|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods> apply to most windows, controls and resources.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 new

B<new(PARENT, %OPTIONS)>

Creates a new ProgressBar object;
can also be called as PARENT->AddProgressBar(%OPTIONS).

Class specific B<%OPTIONS> are:

    -smooth   => 0/1 (default 0)
        uses a smooth bar instead of the default segmented bar.
    -vertical => 0/1 (default 0)
        display progress status vertically (from bottom to top).

See also the L<common options|Win32::GUI::Reference::Options>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 DeltaPos

B<DeltaPos(VALUE)>

Advances the position of the ProgressBar by a specified increment.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetMax

B<GetMax()>

[TBD]

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetMin

B<GetMin()>

[TBD]

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetPos

B<GetPos()>

Retrieves the current position of the ProgressBar.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetRange

B<GetRange()>

Retrieves Min and Max limits of the ProgressBar.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetBarColor

B<SetBarColor(COLOR)>

Sets the color of the progress indicator bar in the ProgressBar.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetBkColor

B<SetBkColor(COLOR)>

Sets the background color in the ProgressBar.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetPos

B<SetPos(VALUE)>

Sets the position of the ProgressBar to the specified VALUE.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetRange

B<SetRange([MIN=0], MAX)>

Sets the range of a ProgressBar between Min and Max value

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetStep

B<SetStep([VALUE=10])>

Sets the increment value for the ProgressBar; see L<StepIt()|Win32::GUI::ProgressBar/StepIt>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 StepIt

B<StepIt()>

Increments the position of the ProgressBar of the defined step value;
see L<SetStep()|Win32::GUI::ProgressBar/SetStep>.




=for comment $Id: per_package_event_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 EVENTS

L<Common events|Win32::GUI::Reference::Events> apply to most windows and controls.





=for comment $Id: pod_postamble.tpl,v 1.2 2005/08/03 21:45:59 robertemay Exp $

=head1 VERSION

Documentation for Win32::GUI v1.13 created 26 Jul 2016

This document is autogenerated by the build process. Edits made here will be lost.
Edit F<docs/per_package.tpl> instead.

=head1 SUPPORT

Homepage: L<http://perl-win32-gui.sourceforge.net/>.

For further support join the users mailing list from the website
at L<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/perl-win32-gui-users>.  There is a searchable list archive at L<http://sourceforge.net/p/perl-win32-gui/mailman/perl-win32-gui-users/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENCE

Copyright (c) 1997..2016 Aldo Calpini. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.


