
=head1 NAME

Win32::GUI::Rebar - Create and manipulate Rebar (aka Coolbar) controls

=head1 DESCRIPTION

[TBD]

=for comment $Id: per_package_method_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 METHODS

L<Common methods|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods> apply to most windows, controls and resources.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 new

B<new(PARENT, %OPTIONS)>

Creates a new Rebar object;
can also be called as PARENT->AddRebar(%OPTIONS).

Class specific B<%OPTIONS> are:

  -autosize => 0/1 (default 0)
    Set/Unset autosize style.
  -bandborders => 0/1 (default 0)
    display a border to separate bands.
  -doubleclick => 0/1 (default 0)
    Set/Unset double click toggle style.
  -fixedorder => 0/1 (default 0)
    band position cannot be swapped.
  -imagelist => Win32::GUI::ImageList object
    Set imagelist.
  -nodivider => 0/1 (default 1)
    Set/Unset nodivider style.
  -varheight => 0/1 (default 1)
    display bands using the minimum required height.
  -vertical => 0/1 (default 0)
    Set/Unset vertical style.
  -vgripper => 0/1 (default 0)
    Set/Unset vertical gripper style.
  -tooltip => Win32::GUI::Tooltip
    Set tooltip window.

See also the L<common options|Win32::GUI::Reference::Options>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 BandCount

B<BandCount()>

See L<GetBandCount()|Win32::GUI::Rebar/GetBandCount>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 BandInfo

B<BandInfo(INDEX)>

See L<GetBandInfo()|Win32::GUI::Rebar/GetBandInfo>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 BeginDrag

B<BeginDrag(INDEX,[POSITION=-1])>

Puts the rebar control in drag-and-drop mode.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 DeleteBand

B<DeleteBand(INDEX)>

Delete a band. Index is Zero-based

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 DragMove

B<DragMove([POSITION=-1])>

Updates the drag position in the rebar control after a previous BeginDrag().

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 EndDrag

B<EndDrag()>

Terminates the rebar control's drag-and-drop operation.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetBandBorder

B<GetBandBorder()>

Retrieves the borders of a band.
Returns a four elements array defining the rebar rectangle (left, top,
right, bottom) or undef on errors.
If the rebar control does not have -bandborders option set, only the left
value have valid information.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetBandCount

B<GetBandCount()>

Returns the number of bands in the rebar.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetBandInfo

B<GetBandInfo(INDEX)>

Returns information on the band as a hash.

  -text       => Contains the display text for the band.
  -foreground => Band foreground colors.
  -background => Band background colors.
  -image      => Image index in imagelist.
  -child      => Handle to the child window contained in the band, if any.
  -bitmap     => Bitmap background handle.
  -width      => Length of the band, in pixels.
  -minwidth   => Minimum width of the child window, in pixels. The band can't be sized smaller than this value.
  -minheight  => Minimum height of the child window, in pixels. The band can't be sized smaller than this value.
  -style      => Flags that specify the band style.
  -idealwidth => Ideal band width. The band maximises to this size, and if chevrons are enabled
                 they are shown when the band is smaller than this value.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetBarHeight

B<GetBarHeight(INDEX)>

Retrieves the height of the rebar control.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetBarInfo

B<GetBarInfo()>

Retrieves ReBar hash information.

 -imagelist => HANDLE
   Handle to an image list

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetBkColor

B<GetBkColor()>

Retrieves a rebar control's default background color.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetColorScheme

B<GetColorScheme()>

Retrieves Rebar color scheme hash information.

 -clrBtnHighlight => COLOR
   the highlight color of the buttons.
 -clrBtnShadow => COLOR
   the shadow color of the buttons.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetPallette

B<GetPallette()>

Retrieves a rebar control's default background color.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetRect

B<GetRect(index)>

Retrieves the bounding rectangle for a given band in a rebar control.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetRowCount

B<GetRowCount()>

Returns the number of rows that the rebars are arranged in.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetRowHeight

B<GetRowHeight(ROW)>

Retrieves the height of a specified row in a rebar control.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetTextColor

B<GetTextColor()>

Retrieves a rebar control's default text color.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetTooltips

B<GetTooltips()>

Retrieves the handle to any tooltip control associated with the rebar control.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetUnicodeFormat

B<GetUnicodeFormat()>

Retrieves the UNICODE character format flag for the control.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 HideBand

B<HideBand(INDEX, [FLAG])>

Hide the band. Index is Zero-based. If flag is 1, the band is shown.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 HitTest

B<HitTest(X,Y)>

Determines which portion of a rebar band is at a given point on the screen, if a rebar band exists at that point.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 IdToIndex

B<IdToIndex(ID)>

Converts a band identifier to a band index in a rebar control.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 InsertBand

B<InsertBand(%OPTIONS)>

Insert a new band into the rebar control.

Allowed %OPTIONS are:

 -image      => Zero based index of the imagelist.
 -index      => Zero based index where the band is inserted.
 -bitmap     => The background bitmap for the band.
 -child      => Child control. See Below.
 -foreground => Band foreground colors.
 -background => Band background colors.
 -width      => The width of the band.
 -minwidth   => The minimum width of the band.
 -minheight  => The minimum height of the band.
 -text       => The text for the band.
 -style      => The style of the band. See Below
 -idealwidth => Ideal band width. The band maximises to this size, and if chevrons are enabled they are shown when the band is smaller than this value.

Each band can only contain one child control. However, you can add a child window that contains many controls:

 $mainwindow = <main window code>

 my $band = new Win32::GUI::Window (
     -parent   => $mainwindow,
     -name     => "RebarBand1",
     -popstyle => WS_CAPTION | WS_SIZEBOX,
     -pushstyle => WS_CHILD,
 );

 # create Date time control for band 1
 my $DateTime = $band->AddDateTime (
     -name     => "DateTime",
     -pos      => [0, 0],
     -size     => [130, 20],
     -tip      => 'A date and time',
 );
 #set the format for the datetime control
 $DateTime->Format('dd-MMM-yyyy HH:mm:ss');

 #Add a button to band 1
 $band->AddButton (
          -name     => 'Button',
          -pos      => [135, 0],
          -size     => [50, 20],
          -text     => 'Button',
          -tip      => 'A Button',
          -onClick => sub {print 'button clicked' },
 );

 my $rebar = $mainwindow->AddRebar(
     -name   => "Rebar",
     -bandborders => 1,
 );

 #Insert band
 $rebar->InsertBand (
   -child     => $band,
   -width     => 210,
   -minwidth  => 210,
   -minheight => 20,
 );

Styles : Each band can have it's own style. As a default, each band has RBBS_CHILDEDGE | RBBS_FIXEDBMP

 RBBS_BREAK = 1           The band is on a new line.
 RBBS_FIXEDSIZE = 2       The band can't be sized. With this style, the sizing grip is not displayed on the band.
 RBBS_CHILDEDGE = 4       The band has an edge at the top and bottom of the child window.
 RBBS_HIDDEN = 8          The band will not be visible.
 RBBS_FIXEDBMP = 32       The background bitmap does not move when the band is resized.
 RBBS_VARIABLEHEIGHT = 64 The band can be resized by the rebar control.
 RBBS_GRIPPERALWAYS = 128 The band will always have a sizing grip, even if it is the only band in the rebar.
 RBBS_NOGRIPPER = 256     The band will never have a sizing grip, even if there is more than one band in the rebar.
 RBBS_USECHEVRON = 512    The band will display chevrons if its width is less than the ideal width

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 MaximizeBand

B<MaximizeBand(INDEX, [FLAG])>

Maximize the band. Index is Zero-based. The flag indicates if the ideal width of the band should be used.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 MinimizeBand

B<MinimizeBand(INDEX)>

Minimize the band. Index is Zero-based.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 MoveBand

B<MoveBand(iFrom, iTo)>

Moves a band from one index to another.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 RowCount

B<RowCount()>

See L<GetRowCount()|Win32::GUI::Rebar/GetRowCount>

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetBandInfo

B<SetBandInfo(INDEX, %OPTIONS)>

Sets characteristics of an existing band in a rebar control.
B<%OPTIONS> : See L<InserBand()|Win32::GUI::Rebar/InserBand>.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetBarInfo

B<SetBarInfo(%OPTIONS)>

Sets a Rebar informations.

B<%OPTIONS> :

 -imagelist => Imagelist.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetBkColor

B<SetBkColor(COLOR)>

Sets a rebar control's default background color.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetColorScheme

B<SetColorScheme(%OPTIONS)>

Sets Rebar color scheme.

B<%OPTIONS> :

 -clrBtnHighlight => COLOR.
    the highlight color of the buttons.
 -clrBtnShadow => COLOR.
    the shadow color of the buttons.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetPalette

B<SetPalette(PALETTE)>

Sets the rebar control's current palette.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetParent

B<SetParent(PARENT)>

Sets a rebar control's parent window.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetTextColor

B<SetTextColor(COLOR)>

Sets a rebar control's default text color.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetToolTips

B<SetToolTips(TOOLTIP)>

Associates a tooltip control with the rebar control.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetUnicodeFormat

B<SetUnicodeFormat(FLAG)>

Sets the UNICODE character format flag for the control.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ShowBand

B<ShowBand(INDEX, [FLAG])>

Show the band. Index is Zero-based. If flag is 1, the band is hidden.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SizeToRect

B<SizeToRect(LEFT, TOP, RIGHT, BOTTOM)>

Attempts to find the best layout of the bands for the given rectangle.




=for comment $Id: per_package_event_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 EVENTS

L<Common events|Win32::GUI::Reference::Events> apply to most windows and controls.

=for comment $Id: per_package_event.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ChevronPushed

B<ChevronPushed(bandindex, left, top, right, bottom)>

Sent when a chevron on a rebar band is clicked

=for comment $Id: per_package_event.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 HeightChange

B<HeightChange()>

Sent when the height of the Rebar control has changed.





=for comment $Id: pod_postamble.tpl,v 1.2 2005/08/03 21:45:59 robertemay Exp $

=head1 VERSION

Documentation for Win32::GUI v1.13 created 26 Jul 2016

This document is autogenerated by the build process. Edits made here will be lost.
Edit F<docs/per_package.tpl> instead.

=head1 SUPPORT

Homepage: L<http://perl-win32-gui.sourceforge.net/>.

For further support join the users mailing list from the website
at L<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/perl-win32-gui-users>.  There is a searchable list archive at L<http://sourceforge.net/p/perl-win32-gui/mailman/perl-win32-gui-users/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENCE

Copyright (c) 1997..2016 Aldo Calpini. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.


