
=head1 NAME

Win32::GUI::Region - A Win32::GUI package

=head1 DESCRIPTION

[TBD]

=for comment $Id: per_package_method_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 METHODS

L<Common methods|Win32::GUI::Reference::Methods> apply to most windows, controls and resources.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 CombineRgn

B<CombineRgn(source1,source2,CombineMode)>

The CombineRgn method combines two regions. The two regions are
combined according to the specified mode.

CombineMode:

 RGN_AND  (1) Creates the intersection of the two combined regions.
 RGN_COPY (5) Creates a copy of the region identified by source1.
 RGN_DIFF (4) Combines the parts of source1 that are not part of source2.
 RGN_OR   (2) Creates the union of two combined regions.
 RGN_XOR  (3) Creates the union of two combined regions except for any
              overlapping areas.

Return Values:

 NULLREGION    (1) The region is empty.
 SIMPLEREGION  (2) The region is a single rectangle.
 COMPLEXREGION (3) The region is more than a single rectangle.
 ERROR         (0) No region is created.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 CreateEllipticRgn

B<CreateEllipticRgn(LEFT, TOP, RIGHT, BOTTOM)>

The CreateEllipticRgn function creates an elliptical region,
returning a region object.

The bounding rectangle defines the size, shape, and orientation of
the region: The long sides of the rectangle define the length of the
ellipse's major axis; the short sides define the length of the
ellipse's minor axis; and the center of the rectangle defines
the intersection of the major and minor axes.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 CreateRectRgn

B<CreateRectRgn(LEFT, TOP, RIGHT, BOTTOM)>

The CreateRectRgn function creates a rectangular region, returning a
region object.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 CreateRoundRectRgn

B<CreateRoundRectRgn(LEFT, TOP, RIGHT, BOTTOM , WIDTH, HEIGHT)>

The CreateRoundRectRgn function creates a rectangular region with
rounded corners, returning a region object.

The width and height is of the ellipse used to create the rounded
corners.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 EqualRgn

B<EqualRgn(Region)>

The EqualRgn function checks the two specified regions to determine
whether they are identical. The method considers two regions identical
if they are equal in size and shape.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 ExtCreateRegion

B<ExtCreateRegion(RGNDATA)>

The ExtCreateRgn function creates a region from data held in memory.
The data is a win32 RGNDATA structure (See MSDN) that can be created by
packing the appropriate structure, or more easily by using the
L<GetRgnData()|Win32::GUI::Region/GetRegionData> method.

  my $rgn = Win32::GUI::Region->CreateRoundRectRgn(0,0,100,100,50,50);
  my $rgndata = $rgn->GetRegionData();
  my $newrgn = Win32::GUI::Region->ExtCreateRegion($rgndata);

Returns a Win32::GUI::Region object on success or undef on failure

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetRegionData

B<GetRegionData()>

The GetRegionData functions returns a representation of the region as a
string of bytes that can be used to re-create an identical region using
the L<ExtCreateRgn()|Win32::GUI::Region/ExtCreateRegion> method.

Returns a string of bytes on success or undef on failure

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 GetRgnBox

B<GetRgnBox()>

The GetRgnBox function retrieves the bounding rectangle of the specified
region.
Returns the rectangle (as a four-element array containing left, top,
right, bottom coordinates)

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 OffsetRgn

B<OffsetRgn(X,Y)>

The OffsetRgn function moves a region by the specified offsets.

The return value specifies the new region's complexity. It can be
one of the following values.

1 (NULLREGION)    Region is empty.
2 (SIMPLEREGION)  Region is a single rectangle.
3 (COMPLEXREGION) Region is more than one rectangle.
0 (ERROR)         An error occurred; region is unaffected.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 PtInRegion

B<PtInRegion(X,Y)>

The PtInRegion method determines whether the specified point is inside
the specified region.

If the specified point is in the region, the return value is nonzero.
If the specified point is not in the region, the return value is zero.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 RectInRegion

B<RectInRegion(left, top, right, bottom)>

The RectInRegion method determines whether any part of the specified
rectangle is within the boundaries of a region.

If any part of the specified rectangle lies within the boundaries of
the region, the return value is nonzero.

If no part of the specified rectangle lies within the boundaries of
the region, the return value is zero.

=for comment $Id: per_package_method.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head2 SetRectRgn

B<SetRectRgn(left, top, right, bottom)>

The SetRectRgn function converts a region into a rectangular region
with the specified coordinates.




=for comment $Id: per_package_event_section.tpl,v 1.3 2006/03/16 21:11:13 robertemay Exp $

=head1 EVENTS

L<Common events|Win32::GUI::Reference::Events> apply to most windows and controls.





=for comment $Id: pod_postamble.tpl,v 1.2 2005/08/03 21:45:59 robertemay Exp $

=head1 VERSION

Documentation for Win32::GUI v1.13 created 26 Jul 2016

This document is autogenerated by the build process. Edits made here will be lost.
Edit F<docs/per_package.tpl> instead.

=head1 SUPPORT

Homepage: L<http://perl-win32-gui.sourceforge.net/>.

For further support join the users mailing list from the website
at L<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/perl-win32-gui-users>.  There is a searchable list archive at L<http://sourceforge.net/p/perl-win32-gui/mailman/perl-win32-gui-users/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENCE

Copyright (c) 1997..2016 Aldo Calpini. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.


