
=pod

=head1 NAME

Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Manual::Plugin - how to extend GTC

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This L<manual|Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Manual> page explains in detail
the two mechanisms by which the user might add GTC functionality without
submitting a L<pull request|https://github.com/lichtkind/Graphics-Toolkit-Color/pulls>: 

One mechanism is color name schemes. These are sets of color names that
translate to L<RGB|Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Manual::Space/RGB> values.

The more powerful mechanism is color spaces. They define numerically 
sets of colors that are arranged along axes in space.

=head1 COLOR SCHEME

=head2 Runtime

The easier way to create a color name scheme ad hoc is to create a 
C<GTC::Name::Scheme> object:

  my $scheme = Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Name::Scheme->new();
  $scheme->add_color( 'best_blue', [20, 30, 250]);            # name and RGB triplet
  ...                                                         # add more colors
  Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Name::add_scheme( $scheme, 'mycolors' );

This will allow the user to L<create|Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Manual::Constructor>
a GTC object with:

  use Graphics::Toolkit::Color qw/color/;
  my $color = color('mycolors:best_blue');
  
It also opens the possibility to search inside the crafted color set by:

  my @names = $color->name( from => 'mycolors', distance => 10);
  my $name  = $color->closest_name( from => 'mycolors');


=head2 Module

A more permanent solution will be to create your own C<Graphics::ColorNames>
package. Please read the documentation of L<the module|Graphics::ColorNames>.
Then create a module which might be named C<Graphics::ColorNames::MyColors>.
Once this module is accessible for your local perl interpreter you can use:

  my $color = color('MyColors:best_blue');
  my @names = $color->name( from => 'MyColors', distance => 10);
  my $name  = $color->closest_name( from => 'MyColors');

Read more about color names L<here|Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Manual::Name>.


=head1 COLOR SPACE

Because color spaces are in GTC such a huge topic they got their own 
L<manual page|Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Manual::Space>. Please read that first.
Spaces are C<Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Space> objects which have to be
known by the C<Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Space::Hub>. But calling 

  my $success = Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Space::Hub::add_space( $my_space );

is the easiest part. This section will show how to create such an object.
Once you created the object and added it to the C<Hub>, every color can 
be converted to and from this space and GTC will be able to read and write
colors that are defined in that new space.

=head2 Construction

The only C<GTC::Space> method to call is C<new>. Once you created the 
object you announce it to the space hub as mentioned above.
The many arguments C<new> accepts function like a small I<DSL>, a domain
specific language that allows you to define a space with as little typing
as possible. Only very few arguments (the last four) require some amount
of coding. Helper functions that are very useful in that endeavour like 
C<spow> or matrix multiplication can be imported from C<GTC::Space>.


    use Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Space qw/:all/;
    Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Space->new (
              name => 'demo',                # space name, defaults to concatenated short axis names
        alias_name => 'alias',               # second, user set space name, often a shortcut
              axis => [qw/light dark blue/], # long axis names, required !
             short => [qw/a b c/],           # short names, defaults to first char of long
              type => [qw/linear circular angular/],   # axis type
             range => [1, [-2, 2], [-3, 3]],           # axis value range
         precision => [-1, 0, 1],                      # axis value precision of value output
            suffix => ['', '', '%'],                   # axis value suffix of value in and output
        value_form => ['\d{3}','\d{1,3}','\d{1,3}'],   # special axis value shape
            values => {read => \&read, write => \&write}, # translate values to numbers and back
           convert => {RGB => [\&from_demo, \&to_demo]}, # converter CODE, required !
            format => {'hex_string'=> [\&hex_from_tuple,\&tuple_from_hex]}, # custom IO format
        constraint => {cone => {checker => '$_[0][1] + $_[0][2] <= 1',
	                           error    => 'The sum of whiteness and blackness can not exceed 100%.',
		                       remedy   => 'my $s = $_[0][1] + $_[0][2];[$_[0][0], $_[0][1]/$s, $_[0][2]/$s]', }},
    );


Let us go through the named arguments of C<new> in detail. 
Of these 13 only two are required: C<axis> and C<convert>.

=head3 name

The argument C<name> expects a string with the primary name to identify
the space in combination with the argument L<in|Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Manual::Argument/in>
and within some color definition L<formats|Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Manual::Format>. 
It is case insensitive and the characters whitespace I<' '>, underscore I<'_'>, 
dash I<'-'> and dot I<'.'> might be inserted for better readability but 
will not be part of the name in any GTC output. It defaults to a 
concatenation of the short axis names ( {r => 0, g => 0, b => 0} --> RGB).

=head3 alias_name

The argument C<alias_name> expects a string which can also be used to
identify the space in combination with the argument
L<in|Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Manual::Argument/in> and within color 
definitions fed to GTC. But it will never be used by GTC in an output. 
Same syntactical freedoms apply as with the C<name>. 
It defaults to an empty string.

=head3 axis

Expects an ARRAY reference with the long names of all axes in the canonical
order. Any axis names can be used case insensitive. It is a required argument.

=head3 short

The C<short> argument expects an ARRAY reference with the short axis names 
of all axes in the canonical order. They default to the first letter of
the long C<axis> names.

=head3 type

The C<type> argument expects an ARRAY reference with the axis types in 
canonical axis order. An axis can either be I<'linear'> or I<'angular'> 
(I<'circular'> is an alias). The default for all axes is I<'linear'>. 

=head3 range

The C<range> argument expects a range definition, which has a syntax that 
is explained L<here|Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Manual::Argument/range>.
It defaults to I<'normal'> ranges.

=head3 precision

The C<precision> argument expects an ARRAY reference with an integer
value for each axis that defines how many decimals a standard output
will have. It defaults to -1 which means all available decimals.
If the precision for all axes is the same, then a single number will suffice.

=head3 suffix

The C<suffix> argument expects an ARRAY reference with a short string per axis.
When GTC outputs a color definition it will append to each value the string
assigned to that axis. These strings are also expected when reading color
definitions although they are optional here. The default is to have no C<suffix>.

=head3 value_form

The C<value_form> argument expects an ARRAY reference with a regular 
expression string per axis. This regex has to match in order that an axis 
value is to be accepted. The default is to have no C<value_form>.

=head3 values

The C<values> argument expects a HASH reference with the keys I<read>
and I<write> that hold a CODE reference. These references point to
routines that can transform non-numeric values into numeric
values that can be handled like any other and vice versa. Please
note that these routines have to accept and return a tuple, an ARRAY
reference with the values of a color in canonical order.
This argument was especially created for the I<NCol> space which has
hue values like I<Y20>.
The default is to have no C<values> transformer.

=head3 convert

The C<convert> argument expects a HASH reference with one key, which
is the name of an already known color space (conversion parent),
color values can be converted to and from. The value that is associated
to that key has to be an ARRAY reference with two CODE references. 
The first provides a function that converts value tuples from the defined
space to the conversion parent. The second CODE reference points to a 
function that works in reverse. 
Both functions have to expect an ARRAY with the color values as first
argument and return the same data format. This argument is required.

=head3 format

The C<format> argument expects a similar data format as C<convert>. The 
difference is that there may be several HASH keys which are names of color
definition formats the user wishes to add. To each key belongs again an 
ARRAY reference with two CODE references that can read (first) and write (second) 
this new format. The default is to add no C<format>.

=head3 constraint

The C<constraint> argument expects a HASH reference with one or more keys,
that are the names of the space constraints and which can be chosen freely. 
Constraints are borders to geometric areas of this space that are excluded 
from the definition of this space. A constraint definition empowers GTC to
handle color values that violate that constraint. 
Every constraint name (HASH key) has to point to a constraint definition, 
a HASH with three keys: I<checker>, I<error> and I<remedy>.
I<checker> provides a CODE ref that returns a pseudo boolean that is false (0)
if a color tuple (first argument) violates the constraint. I<error> provides
a string that announces which constraint was violated and maybe why.
I<remedy> provides a CODE reference that can take the violating color
tuple as argument and hopefully corrects the values without making too
drastic changes. The default is to have no C<constraint>.


GTC already includes over 30 color spaces. You might want to read
their source code under C<Graphics::Toolkit::Color::Space::Instance::*>
to get some more inspiration.

=head2 helper

When writing converter functions the author can rely upon a host of 
importable helper routines, that will make his life much easier.

=head3 mult_matrix_vector_3

Multiplies a 3x3 Matrix (first argument: ARRAY of ARRAYs (rows)) with 
a three element vector (arguments 2 - 4). The resulting vector comes
also as a list.

=head3 spow

This is the I<sign preserving power function>. It takes two arguments,
a base and an exponent. In normal cases this will work as any power function.
But if the base is negative, its sign will be reversed and the result gets
reversed again.

=head3 min max

Both C<min> and C<max> take a list of numeric values and return the smallest
(min) or the largest (max) value of them all. 
It is just a replacement for L<List::Util>.

=head3 mod_real

This is a modulo that works on floating point numbers and returns 
floating point values as remainder.

    my $result = mod_real(5.3, 2.1);   # it's 1.1

=head3 round_decimals

This is a primitive rounding function that takes the number as first 
argument and the number of desired decimals as second argument.

=head3 is_nr

This is a simple check if the argument looks like a number and returns a
pseudo boolean as result.


=head1 AUTHOR

Herbert Breunung, <lichtkind@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2026 Herbert Breunung.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
