=head1 NAME

Geo::Format::Landsat::MTL - read landsat meta data from MTL file

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Geo::Format::Landsat::MTL
   is a Exporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my ($type, $data) = landsat_mtl_from_file $filename;

 # study the result.
 use Data::Dumper;
 warn Dumper $data;

 print $data->{METADATA_FILE_INFO}{ORIGIN}, "\n";

 my $data = landsat_meta_from_filename $filename;
 print $data->{WRS_PATH};

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Process the content of a MTL file, as specified by document
C<level1_dfcb_rev5_401.pdf>.
See also F<http://landsathandbook.gsfc.nasa.gov/handbook/handbook_toc.html>

=head1 FUNCTIONS

B<landsat_meta_from_filename>(FILENAME)

=over 4

Returns information from the filename, like the PRODUCT_METADATA
structured from the MTL record, but without opening the file.

=back

B<landsat_mtl_from_file>(FILE)

=over 4

Read one Vgroup record from the FILE, specified by name or filehandle.

Returned is a pair: the name of the record (for instance, C<L1_METADATA_FILE>)
and the destructed content.  Each nested group is represented by a nested
HASH.

The HASHes contain keys in capitals, which are exactly the fields as
found in the meta-data file.  Additionally, a number of lower-cased
keys are added (the lower cased versions of some upper-cased names)
with smart processed information.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Geo-Format-Landsat distribution version 0.03,
built on January 29, 2009. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/geo/>
All modules in this suite:
L</Geo::Point>,
L</Geo::Proj4>,
L</Geo::WKT>,
L</Math::Polygon>,
L</Geo::GML>,
L</Geo::ISO19139>,
L</Geo::EOP>,
L</Geo::Format::Envisat>, and
L</Geo::Format::Landsat>.

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://geo-perl@list.hut.fi>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2009 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

