\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename readme.info
@settitle Perl SVN::S4 Installation
@c %**end of header

@c DESCRIPTION: TexInfo: DOCUMENT source run through texinfo to produce README file
@c Use 'make README' to produce the output file
@c Before release, run C-u C-c C-u C-a (texinfo-all-menus-update)

@node Top, Copyright, (dir), (dir)
@chapter SVN::S4

This is the SVN::S4 Perl Package.

@menu
* Copyright::
* Description::
* Obtaining Distribution::
* Known Bugs::
* Supported Systems::
* Installation::
@end menu

@node Copyright, Description, Top, Top
@section Copyright

This package is Copyright 2006-2017 by Bryce Denney and Wilson Snyder
@email{wsnyder@@wsnyder.org}.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of either the GNU Lesser General Public License
Version 3 or the Perl Artistic License Version 2.0.

This code is provided with no warranty of any kind, and is used entirely at
your own risk.

@node Description, Obtaining Distribution, Copyright, Top
@section Description

This package adds additional Subversion support commands, similar to
the P4::C4 package.  These commands let you apply .cvsignore or
.gitignore files, snapshot areas and cleanup ignored files. You can
also create views that consist of different repository areas, and deal
with them as if it was a larger checkout.

@node Obtaining Distribution, Known Bugs, Description, Top
@section Obtaining Distribution

The latest version is available at
@uref{http://www.perl.org/CPAN/}

Download the latest package from that site, and decompress.
@samp{gunzip SVN-S4_version.tar.gz ; tar xvf SVN-S4_version.tar}

@node Known Bugs, Supported Systems, Obtaining Distribution, Top
@section Known Bugs

SVN::S4 viewspecs rely on some obscure features of Subversion, in that
s4 needs to modify the .svn directory to create empty directories and
svn externals that switch to them.  This may require patching to work
when new versions of Subversion are released.  Other features should
work with all versions of Subverion.

@node Supported Systems, Installation, Known Bugs, Top
@section Supported Systems

This version of SVN::S4 has been built and tested on:

@itemize @bullet
@item i386-linux
@end itemize

It should run on any Unix system with appropriate releases of
Subversion (see above).  Minor porting may be required for Windows
systems.

@node Installation,  , Supported Systems, Top
@section Installation

@enumerate
@item

Before installing this module, you need the Subversion Perl library,
generally part of the ``subversion-perl'' RPM module.

@item
@code{cd} to the directory containing this README notice.

@item
Type @samp{perl Makefile.PL} to configure SVN::S4 for your system.

@item
Type @samp{make} to compile SVN::S4.

@item
Type @samp{make test} to check the compilation.

@item
Type @samp{make install} to install the programs and any data files and
documentation.

@item
Type @samp{s4 help} to see the command line interface.

@end enumerate

