=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Convert::EmailSimple - translate Mail::Message to Email::Simple vv

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Convert::EmailSimple
   is a Mail::Message::Convert
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Mail::Message::Convert::EmailSimple;
  my $convert = Mail::Message::Convert::EmailSimple->new;

  my Mail::Message $msg    = Mail::Message->new;
  my Email::Simple $intern = $convert->export($msg);

  my Email::Simple $intern = Mail::Internet->new;
  my Mail::Message $msg    = $convert->from($intern);

  use Mail::Box::Manager;
  my $mgr     = Mail::Box::Manager->new;
  my $folder  = $mgr->open(folder => 'Outbox');
  $folder->addMessage($intern);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Email::Simple class is one of the base objects used by the
large set of Email* modules, which implement many e-mail needs
which are also supported by MailBox.  You can use this class to
gradularly move from a Email* based implementation into a MailBox
implementation.

The internals of this class are far from optimal.  The conversion
does work (thanks to Ricardo Signes), but is expensive in time
and memory usage.  It could easily be optimized.

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"DESCRIPTION">.

=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"METHODS">.

=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"Constructors">.

=over 4

=item $class-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

Inherited, see L<Mail::Message::Convert/"METHODS">

=back

=head2 Attributes

Extends L<"Attributes" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"Attributes">.

=head2 Converting

Extends L<"Converting" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"Converting">.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<export>($message, %options)

Returns a new Email::Simple object based on the information from
a L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message> object.  The C<$message> specified is an
instance of a L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message>.

» example: 

  my $convert = Mail::Message::Convert::EmailSimple->new;
  my Mail::Message  $msg   = Mail::Message->new;
  my Mail::Internet $copy  = $convert->export($msg);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<from>($object, %options)

Returns a new L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message> object based on the information from
an Email::Simple.

» example: 

  my $convert = Mail::Message::Convert::EmailSimple->new;
  my Mail::Internet $msg  = Mail::Internet->new;
  my Mail::Message  $copy = $convert->from($msg);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<selectedFields>($head)

Inherited, see L<Mail::Message::Convert/"Converting">

=back

=head2 Error handling

Extends L<"Error handling" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"Error handling">.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>()

Inherited, see L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>()

Inherited, see L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

Extends L<"Cleanup" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"Cleanup">.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>()

Inherited, see L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Error: class $package does not implement method $method.

Fatal error: the specific C<$package> (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.
Cast by C<notImplemented()>

=item Error: converting from Email::Simple but got a $class.

Cast by C<from()>

=item Error: export message must be a Mail::Message, but is a $class.

Cast by C<export()>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Message version 4.03,
built on January 26, 2026. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

For contributors see file ChangeLog.

This software is copyright (c) 2001-2026 by Mark Overmeer.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

