=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS - Convert HTML into PostScript

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS
   is a Mail::Message::Convert
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS;
  my $af = Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS->new;

  my $postscript = $af->format($body);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Translate an HTML/XHTML message body into a postscript body
using HTML::FormatPS.

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"DESCRIPTION">.

=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"METHODS">.

=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"Constructors">.

=over 4

=item $class-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

C<%options> which start with capitals are blindly passed to HTML::FormatPS.
As of this writing, that package defines BottomMargin, FontFamily,
FontScale, HorizontalMargin, Leading, LeftMargin, PageNo, PaperHeight,
PaperSize, PaperWidth, RightMargin, TopMargin, and VerticalMargin.
Improves base, see L<Mail::Reporter/"Constructors">

 -Option--Defined in            --Default
  fields  Mail::Message::Convert  <not used>

=over 2

=item fields => $name|$regex|\@names|\@regexes

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

Extends L<"Attributes" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"Attributes">.

=head2 Converting

Extends L<"Converting" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"Converting">.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<format>($body)

Pass an html or xhtml encoded body, and a plain text body is returned.
Characters are translated into Latin1.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<selectedFields>($head)

Inherited, see L<Mail::Message::Convert/"Converting">

=back

=head2 Error handling

Extends L<"Error handling" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"Error handling">.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>()

Inherited, see L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>()

Inherited, see L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

Extends L<"Cleanup" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"Cleanup">.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>()

Inherited, see L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Error: class $package does not implement method $method.

Fatal error: the specific C<$package> (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.
Cast by C<notImplemented()>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Message version 4.02,
built on January 22, 2026. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

For contributors see file ChangeLog.

This software is copyright (c) 2001-2026 by Mark Overmeer.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

