=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat - Reformat plain text messages

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat
   is a Mail::Message::Convert
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat;
  my $af = Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat->new;

  my $beautified_body = $af->autoformatBody($body);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Play trics with plain text, for instance bodies with type C<text/plain>
using Damian Conway's Text::Autoformat.

Extends L<"DESCRIPTION" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"DESCRIPTION">.

=head1 METHODS

Extends L<"METHODS" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"METHODS">.

=head2 Constructors

Extends L<"Constructors" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"Constructors">.

=over 4

=item $class-E<gt>B<new>(%options)

Inherited, see L<Mail::Reporter/"Constructors">

 -Option --Defined in            --Default
  fields   Mail::Message::Convert  <see description>
  options                          +{ all => 1 }

=over 2

=item fields => $name|$regex|\@names|\@regexes

=item options => \%af

The C<%af> options to pass to Text::Autoformat function C<autoformat()>.

=back

=back

=head2 Attributes

Extends L<"Attributes" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"Attributes">.

=head2 Converting

Extends L<"Converting" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"Converting">.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<autoformatBody>($body)

Formats a single message body (a L<Mail::Message::Body|Mail::Message::Body> object) into a new
body object using Text::Autoformat.

The body should have content type C<text/plain>, otherwise the output is
probably weird.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<selectedFields>($head)

Inherited, see L<Mail::Message::Convert/"Converting">

=back

=head2 Error handling

Extends L<"Error handling" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"Error handling">.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>()

Inherited, see L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>()

Inherited, see L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

Extends L<"Cleanup" in Mail::Message::Convert|Mail::Message::Convert/"Cleanup">.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>()

Inherited, see L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Error: class $package does not implement method $method.

Fatal error: the specific C<$package> (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.
Cast by C<notImplemented()>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Message version 4.03,
built on January 26, 2026. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN/>

=head1 LICENSE

For contributors see file ChangeLog.

This software is copyright (c) 2001-2026 by Mark Overmeer.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

