=pod

=begin readme text

RPC::ExtDirect
==============

=end readme

=for readme stop

=head1 NAME

RPC::ExtDirect - Easily integrate Perl server code with JavaScript apps

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    package Foo::Bar;
    
    use RPC::ExtDirect Action => 'FooBar';
    
    sub sum : ExtDirect(len => 2) {
        my ($class, $a, $b) = @_;
        
        return $a + $b;
    }
    
    sub login : ExtDirect(params => ['user, 'pass']) {
        my ($class, %arg) = @_;
        
        if ( $arg{user} eq 'foo' && $arg{pass} eq 'bar' ) {
            return {
                success => \1,  # JSON::true
            };
        }
        else {
            return {
                success => \0,  # JSON::false
                error   => "You shall not pass!"
            };
        }
    }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=for readme continue

RPC::ExtDirect suite of modules provides an easy, simple and robust way to
write Perl server side code that could be used with HTML5 Rich Internet
Applications based on JavaScript frameworks
L<Ext JS|http://www.sencha.com/products/extjs/> and
L<Sencha Touch|http://www.sencha.com/products/touch/>.

The suite consists of the core RPC::ExtDirect module that implements Ext.Direct
protocol and transport layer, several server environment-specific peripheral
gateways, a standalone pure Perl server, two Perl clients, and even its own
specialized testing scaffold! We've got it covered front to back. :)

=for readme stop

=head1 INTRODUCTION AND EXAMPLES

If you are not familiar with Ext.Direct, start with L<RPC::ExtDirect::Intro>
for more explanations and a few examples, both easy and more advanced.

=head1 WHEN TO USE IT, AND WHY

Ext.Direct is a Remote Procedure Call (RPC) protocol provided out of the box
with JavaScript frameworks by L<Sencha|http://www.sencha.com>. It is deeply
integrated in the data services, and is supported by a slew of components.
Besides that, Ext.Direct also has several major advantages over similar
protocols like XML-RPC and JSON-RPC:

=over 4

=item *

Built in service discovery mechanism: server side API is published to the
client via GET requests to a preconfigured URI

=item *

Dead simple client side invocation via functional stubs created from the
API declaration

=item *

Support for call metadata that is handled separately from the arguments
for method invocation

=item *

Support for request batching with configurable timeout

=item *

Easy file uploads via form submits, with all the complexity handled behind
the curtains by the framework and the server side stack

=item *

Asynchronous push notifications via event polling

=back

All this makes Ext.Direct a no-brainer when developing Web apps with Ext JS or
Sencha Touch. And with RPC::ExtDirect, choosing Perl to write server side code
for Web apps comes naturally, too. :)

=for readme stop

=head1 HOW TO USE

Since Ext.Direct is just a transport layer, you don't need to change your app
architecture to work around it. If you have an existing server side API you
can publish it with minimal effort; if you're starting from scratch, add the
classes and methods as you go.

Note that with Ext.Direct, we're talking about classes and methods - that owes
to the fact that Ext.Direct originated in Ext JS framework, which itself is
written in JavaScript with object-oriented approach in mind. This does not mean
you can't go functional or even procedural with RPC::ExtDirect; it is perfectly
possible to cook your own flavor of spaghetti code under the light OOP sauce that
RPC::ExtDirect provides.

In order for a method to be published to the outside world, it needs to be
declared in the L<Ext.Direct API|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/API>. As of version 3.0,
it can be done in two ways: either with C<ExtDirect> attribute as shown in the
L</SYNOPSIS>, or by including the method in a hashref fed to L<RPC::ExtDirect::API>
constructor. See L<RPC::ExtDirect::API/"COMPILE VS RUN TIME DEFINITION"> for more
detail.

=head1 METHODS AND CALLING CONVENTIONS

Unlike Ext.Direct specification (and reference PHP implementation, too)
RPC::ExtDirect does not impose strict architectural notation on server
side code. There is no mandatory object instantiation and no assumption
about the code called. That said, an RPC::ExtDirect Method should conform
to the following conventions:

=over 4

=item *

Be a class method, i.e. be aware that its first argument will be the package
(class) name. Just ignore it if you don't want it.

=item *

Ordered (numbered) arguments are passed as list in C<@_>, so C<$_[1]> is
the first argument. No more than number of arguments declared in the
L<Method|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/Method> definition will be passed to the
Method; any extra will be dropped silently. Less arguments than declared
will result in an L<Exception|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/Exception> returned
to the client side, and Method never gets called.

=item *

Named arguments are passed as a hash in C<@_>. No arguments other than
declared will be passed to the L<Method|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/Method>;
extra arguments will be dropped silently. If not all arguments are
present for the remoting invocation, an
L<Exception|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/Exception> will be returned and the
Method never gets called.

Starting with Ext JS 4.2.2, it is possble to relax the argument checking
requirements; see L<RPC::ExtDirect::API/"Lazy parameter checking"> for
more information.

=item *

Form handlers are passed their arguments as a hash in C<@_>. Standard
Ext.Direct form field values are removed from the argument hash;
uploaded file(s) will be passed in the C<file_uploads> hash element.
It will only be present when there are uploaded files. For more info,
see L</"FILE UPLOADS">.

Note that any field values in a submitted form will be JSON encoded
by the client side.

=item *

All remoting Methods are called in scalar context. Returning one scalar
value is OK; returning array- or hashref is OK too.

Do not return blessed objects; it is almost always not obvious how to
serialize them into JSON that is expected by the client side. JSON
encoder will choke and an L<Exception|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/Exception>
will be returned to the client. Having said that, if you know what you
are doing, it is possible to adjust the Serializer's behavior with
L<RPC::ExtDirect::Config/json_options> Config option.

=item *

If an error is encountered while processing request, throw
an exception: C<die "My error string\n">. Note that C<"\n"> at
the end of error string; if you don't add it, C<die()> will
append file name and line number to the error message
which is probably not the best idea for errors that are not
shown in server console but rather passed on to the JavaScript client.

RPC::ExtDirect will trim that last C<"\n"> for you before
sending the L<Exception|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/Exception> back to the
client side.

=item *

Poll handler methods are called in list context and do not
receive any arguments except the environment object. Return value
must be a list of instantiated L<Event|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/Event>
objects, see L<RPC::ExtDirect::Event> for more detail.

=back

=head1 CALL METADATA

Imagine a Web application with an editable Grid populated with data
from a database table. To update the database when changes are saved,
the client will send an array of changed records that will be passed
to the corresponding Ext.Direct Method as call arguments. But what
about the table name?

The usual approach is to create a separate set of 4 CRUD methods
(Create, Read, Update, Delete) for each table, and expose these
methods as a separate L<Action|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/Action>. While
tried and true, this approach leads to bloated Ext.Direct API
when there are many tables, with lots of packages and code duplication
just for the sake of editing a database table. This can be especially
frustrating when the application has many similar tables differing
only in the name.

Call metadata allows solving this and many other problems by passing
some information to the called Method along with the main data but not
as a part of the arguments. In particular, using metadata allows for
having one set of CRUD methods for all similar data tables and send
different table name for each call as metadata.

More of it, Ext JS (and RPC::ExtDirect, too) allow having different
calling convention for Method arguments and metadata, e.g. having a
L<Named Method|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Named Method"> with ordered
(by position) metadata, and vice versa.

Call metadata is a new feature in Ext JS 5.1+.

=head1 HOOKS

Hooks provide an option to intercept method calls and modify arguments
passed to the methods, or cancel their execution. Hooks are intended
to be used as a shim between task-oriented Methods and Web specifics.

Methods should not, to the reasonable extent, be aware of their
environment or care about it; Hooks are expected to know how to deal with
Web intricacies but not be task oriented.

The best uses for Hooks are: application or package-wide pre-call setup,
user authorization, logging, cleanup, testing, etc. Or you can think of
the Hooks as poor man's method wrappers without L<Moose's|Moose> power
(and associated costs).

See more in L<RPC::ExtDirect::API::Hook>.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT OBJECTS

Since Hooks, and sometimes Methods too, need to be aware of their Web
environment, it is necessary to give them access to it in some way
without locking in on platform specifics. RPC::ExtDirect's answer to
this problem is environment objects.

An environment object provides platform-agnostic interface for accessing
HTTP headers, cookies, form field values, etc. Such object is guaranteed
to have the same set of methods that behave the same way across all
platforms supported by RPC::ExtDirect, avoiding portability issues.

The interface is modeled after the de facto standard CGI.pm:

=over 4

=item *

C<$value = $env-E<gt>param('name')> will retrieve a parameter by name

=item *

C<@list = $env-E<gt>param()> will get the list of available parameters

=item *

C<$cookie = $env-E<gt>cookie('name')> will retrieve a cookie

=item *

C<@cookies = $env-E<gt>cookie()> will return the list of cookies

=item *

C<$header = $env-E<gt>http('name')> will return an HTTP header

=item *

C<@headers = $env-E<gt>http()> will return the list of HTTP headers

=back

Of course it is possible to use environment object in a more sophisticated
way if you like to, however do not rely on it having a well-known class
name as it is not guaranteed. Environment objects are simple helpers
held together by duck type.

Starting with RPC::ExtDirect 3.0, only L<Hooks|/HOOKS> will receive
an environment object by default. For Methods to receive them as well,
you need to specify a L<RPC::ExtDirect::API::Method/env_arg> parameter
in Method definition.

=head1 FILE UPLOADS

Ext.Direct offers native support for file uploading by using temporary
HTML forms. RPC::ExtDirect supports this feature; upload requests can be
processed in a
L<Form Handler Method|RPC::ExtDirect::Intro/"Form Handler Method">.
The interface aims to be platform agnostic and will try to do its best
to provide the same results in all HTTP environments supported by
RPC::ExtDirect.

In a Form Handler Method, arguments are passed as a hash. If one or more
file uploads were associated with request, the argument hash will contain
a key with value set to arrayref of file hashrefs. The default name for
this key is C<file_uploads>; this can be configured using
L<upload_arg|RPC::ExtDirect::API::Method/upload_arg> Method parameter.

Each file hashref will have the following keys:

=over 4

=item C<type>

MIME type of the file, if provided

=item C<size>

File size, in octets

=item C<path>

Path to a temporary file that holds uploaded content

=item C<handle>

Open IO::Handle for the temporary file

=item C<basename>

Name portion of the originally submitted file name, if provided by the
client side

=item C<filename>

Full original path as sent by the client, if any

=back

All files passed to a Method need to be processed in that Method;
existence of temporary files is not guaranteed after Method returns.

=head1 GATEWAYS

In RPC::ExtDirect parlance, a Gateway is a module that deals with the
specifics of a particular Web server environment. At the time of writing
this documentation, the following gateways are available for
RPC::ExtDirect:

=over 4

=item CGI gateway

L<CGI::ExtDirect> is used with the ole goode L<CGI> environment; it is
also compatible with the newer L<CGI::Simple> module that is a drop-in
replacement for C<CGI.pm>.

This gateway is most often used for testing Ext.Direct interfaces, usually
with L<Test::ExtDirect> helper module. However, CGI environment is easy
to use and set up practically anywhere, and it can be used in the variety
of situations where a full blown Perl application server is not feasible.

One example of such usage would be retrofitting a legacy system with a
modern HTML5 Web interface.

=item Plack gateway

L<Plack::Middleware::ExtDirect> implements an RPC::ExtDirect interface
for L<Plack> application server environment. This gateway should also be
used instead of the L<Apache gateway|/"Apache gateway"> in L<mod_perl>
environment.

=item AnyEvent::HTTPD gateway

L<AnyEvent::HTTPD::ExtDirect> implements a completely asynchronous
interface for RPC::ExtDirect, based on L<AnyEvent::HTTPD> module.

=item Apache gateway

L<Apache::ExtDirect> is a legacy gateway for Apache/L<mod_perl>
environment. Since it was written, Apache has fallen out of usage with
the author and so the gateway is mostly unsupported. You can use
L<Plack gateway|/"Plack gateway"> instead, with one of the built in
Apache/Plack handlers.

=back

=head1 MIGRATING FROM PREVIOUS VERSIONS

If you are using less than current RPC::ExtDirect version, please
refer to L<RPC::ExtDirect::Migration> document for the notes and
explanations that might prove useful for migration.

=begin readme

=head1 INSTALLATION

To install this module type the following:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make && make test
    make install

=end readme

=for readme continue

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

RPC::ExtDirect is dependent on the following modules:
L<Attribute::Handlers>, L<JSON>.

The oldest Perl version RPC::ExtDirect is routinely tested against
is 5.6.2.

=for readme stop

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

At this time there are no known bugs in this module. Please report
problems to the author, patches are always welcome.

Use L<Github tracker|https://github.com/nohuhu/RPC-ExtDirect/issues>
to open bug reports, this is the easiest and quickest way to get your
issue fixed.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Take a look at these useful modules that are a part of RPC::ExtDirect
family:

=over 4

=item *

L<RPC::ExtDirect::Server> - a prebuilt Ext.Direct server in Perl, based on
L<HTTP::Server::Simple>.

=item *

L<RPC::ExtDirect::Client> - a synchronous Ext.Direct client in Perl.

=item *

L<RPC::ExtDirect::Client::Async> - a fully asynchronous Ext.Direct client
in Perl, with API compatible to L<RPC::ExtDirect::Client>.

=item *

L<Test::ExtDirect> - a set of helper subroutines that make unit testing
Ext.Direct APIs a breeze.

=back

Also you can find additional information in the following Web site links:

=over 4

=item *

L<Ext JS product website|http://www.sencha.com/products/extjs/>

=item *

L<Sencha Touch product website|http://www.sencha.com/products/touch/>

=item *

L<Ext.Direct specification|http://www.sencha.com/products/extjs/extdirect/>

=item *

L<Ext.Direct support forum|http://www.sencha.com/forum/forumdisplay.php?47>

=item *

L<Ext.Direct plugin for jQuery|https://github.com/ha-sash/jquery-ext-direct-client>

=back

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

I would like to thank IntelliSurvey, Inc for sponsoring my work
on versions 2.x and 3.x of the RPC::ExtDirect suite of modules.

=for readme continue

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2011-2016 by Alex Tokarev E<lt>tokarev@cpan.orgE<gt>.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself. See L<"perlartistic">.

=cut
