=head1 NAME

WWW::AUR::Package - Query, download, and build AUR packages.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use WWW::AUR;
  my $aurobj = WWW::AUR->new();
  my $pkg = $aurobj->find( 'perl-www-aur' );
  
  # or using WWW::AUR::Package directly ...
  use WWW::AUR::Package;
  my $pkg = WWW::AUR::Package->new( 'perl-www-aur' );
  
  #----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  # Accessors exist for package info fields...
  printf "ID: %d -- Name: %s -- Version: %s\n",
      $pkg->id, $pkg->name, $pkg->version;
  
  # Or retrieve the info as a hash, easier for printing...
  my %info = $pkg->info;
  print "ID: $info{id} -- Name: $info{name} -- Version: $info{version}"
  
  # Before extracting, pkgbuild() gets the PKGBUILD from the webpage...
  my %pkgbuild = $pkg->pkgbuild;
  print "pkgname: $pkgbuild{pkgname}\npkgver: $pkgbuild{pkgver}\n";
  
  #----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  # Check the source package file size before downloading...
  my $dlsize = $pkg->download_size;
  print "Source package size is $dlsize bytes.\n";
  
  # PKGBUILD arrays are turned into array refs...
  printf "depends: %s\n", join q{ }, @{ $pkgbuild{depends} };
  
  # download() method sets the src_pkg_path() accessor...
  $pkg->download;
  printf "Downloaded %s to %s.\n", $pkg->name, $pkg->src_pkg_path;
  
  # extract() method sets the src_dir_path() accessor...
  $pkg->extract;
  printf "Extracted source package to %s.\n", $pkg->src_dir_path;
  
  # build() method sets the bin_pkg_path() accessor...
  $pkg->build;
  printf "Build binary package and saved to %s.\n", $pkg->bin_pkg_path();
  
  # After extracting, pkgbuild() is read from the file on disk...
  %pkgbuild = $pkg->pkgbuild;
  
  # Get the package owner maintainer object...
  my $maint_obj = $pkg->maintainer();
  
  # Or maybe you only want their name... (this is faster)
  my $maint_name = $pkg->maintainer_name();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The package class is the most important class for the I<WWW-AUR>
distribution. Using a package object, you can lookup any information
you need for the package as well as download, extract, and build the
package with the makepkg command.

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

  $OBJ = WWW::AUR::Package->new( $NAME, %PATH_PARAMS? );

The constructor takes the package name as its argument. An error will
be I<croaked> with L<Carp> if the package could not be found on the
AUR.  Path parameters are optional, see L<WWW::AUR/PATH PARAMETERS>
for more information.

  NOTE: In order to look up a package by name, this module must query
        the AUR RPC first. Just keep in mind every WWW::AUR::Package
        object you creates requires an HTTP request.

=over 4

=item C<$NAME>

The name of the AUR package.

=item C<%PATH_PARAMS> I<(Optional)>

Path parameters. See L<WWW::AUR/PATH PARAMETERS>.

=item B<Errors>

=over 4

=item Failed to find package: C<$NAME>

This error is I<croak>-ed if the package with the given C<$NAME> could
not be found.

=back

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Package Info Accessors

  $IDNUM    = $OBJ->id;         (RPC Field Names)
  $NAME     = $OBJ->name;
  $VERSION  = $OBJ->version;
  $DESC     = $OBJ->desc;       ("Description")
  $CATEGORY = $OBJ->category;
  $URL      = $OBJ->url;
  $URLPATH  = $OBJ->urlpath;
  $LICENSE  = $OBJ->license;
  $VOTES    = $OBJ->votes;      ("NumVotes")
  $OUTDATED = $OBJ->outdated;   ("OutOfDate")
  $CTIME    = $OBJ->ctime;      ("FirstSubmitted")
  $MTIME    = $OBJ->mtime;      ("LastModified")

These accessors correlate exactly to the keys returned to by the AUR's
rpc.php output given. Most of the fields are self explanatory.

=over 4

=item C<$CATEGORY>

Instead of using an id number for categories, they are mapped to the
name of the category. The following names are used for each corresponding
category ID:

=over 4

=item 1. daemons

=item 2. devel

=item 3. editors

=item 4. emulators

=item 5. games

=item 6. gnome

=item 7. i18n

=item 8. kde

=item 9. kernels

=item 10. lib

=item 11. modules

=item 12. multimedia

=item 13. network

=item 14. office

=item 15. science

=item 16. system

=item 17. x11

=item 18. xfce

=back

=item C<$VOTES>

The I<NumVotes> RPC field was renamed to, simply, I<votes>.

=item C<$OUTDATED>

The I<OutOfDate> RPC field was renamed to I<outdated>.

=item C<$CTIME>

The I<FirstSubmitted> RPC field was renamed to I<ctime>.

=item C<$MTIME>

The I<LastModified> RPC field was renamed to I<mtime>.

=back

=head2 info

  %INFO = $OBJ->info;

Returns all data from the info accessors as one hash. Keys are the
same as the accessor names.

=head2 pkgbuild

  $PKGBUILD_OBJ = $OBJ->pkgbuild;

Parses the PKGBUILD file and returns it as a L<WWW::AUR::PKGBUILD>
object.

If the package has already been extracted then the PKGBUILD is read
from the PKGBUILD file extracted to disk. Otherwise, the PKGBUILD is
read direct from the AUR webpage without downloading a source package
file.

=head2 download

  $SRCPKGPATH = $OBJ->download( $CALLBACK? )

=over 4

=item C<$CALLBACK> I<(Optional)>

A code reference that will be called everytime a "chunk" of data
is downloaded. Two parameters are passed to the supplied code reference:

=over 4

=item 1. The number of bytes downloaded so far.

=item 2. The total size of the package, in bytes.

=back

=item C<$SRCPKGPATH>

The absolute path to the source package file that was downloaded.

=back

=head2 maintainer

  $MAINTAINER_OBJ = $OBJ->maintainer( %PATH_PARAMS? )

=over 4

=item C<$MAINTAINER_OBJ>

The L<WWW::AUR::Maintainer> object representing the maintainer of this
package.

=item C<%PATH_PARAMS> I<(Optional)>

Optional path parameters to store in the new maintainer object. These
will get passed to any package object that are initialized by it.

=back

=head2 maintainer_name

  $MAINTAINER_NAME = $OBJ->maintainer_name()

=over 4

=item C<$MAINTAINER_NAME>

The name of the maintainer of this package. This method is alot faster
than C<maintainer()> because it does not verify anything. This just
scrapes the package's webpage for the maintainer name.

=back

=head2 Package File Methods

  $SRCPKGDIR = $OBJ->extract;
  $BINPKGDIR = $OBJ->build( %BUILD_PARAMS? );
  undef | $PATH = $OBJ->src_pkg_path;
  undef | $PATH = $OBJ->src_pkg_dir;
  undef | $PATH = $OBJ->bin_pkg_path;

After calling L</download> a L<WWW::AUR::Package::File> object is
stored inside the B<WWW::AUR::Package> object. All of the
B<WWW::AUR::Package::File> methods are wrapped by the Package object.

The I<extract> and I<build> methods call L</download> first if it has
not already been called. I<build> calls the I<build> method in the
L<WWW::AUR::Package::File> object, which will call the corresponding
I<extract> method if it has not already been called.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item * L<WWW::AUR>

=item * L<WWW::AUR::Package::File>

=item * L<WWW::AUR::PKGBUILD>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Justin Davis, C<< <juster at cpan dot org> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please email me any bugs you find. I will try to fix them as quick as I can.

=head1 SUPPORT

Send me an email if you have any questions or need help.

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2014 Justin Davis.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.
