=head1 NAME

WWW::AUR::UserAgent - Default HTTP UserAgent object for requests.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the default user agent for making HTTP requests. By default
this class ISA LWP::UserAgent object with all methods provided
by LWP::UserAgent. Maybe in the future I will fancy it up a bit more
in order to use AnyEvent and concurrent requests if I need to.

The only difference from LWP::UserAgent is that the 'useragent'
string parameter is set to "WWW::AUR/v$VERSION" where $VERSION
is equal to $WWW::AUR::VERSION.

=head1 OBJECT METHODS

Right now the methods are the same as LWP::UserAgent.

=head1 CLASS METHODS

This class also contains the C<InitTLS> class method to load
the modules required for SSL/TLS https connections. This is
used by WWW::AUR::Login and WWW::AUR::RPC.
C<InitTLS> takes no parameters. If TLS cannot be loaded
(for example, if LWP::Protocol::https fails to load) then an error
message is croaked.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<WWW::AUR>

=head1 AUTHOR

Justin Davis, C<< <juster at cpan dot org> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please email me any bugs you find. I will try to fix them as quick as I can.

=head1 SUPPORT

Send me an email if you have any questions or need help.

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2014 Justin Davis.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.
