=head1 NAME

ORM::Datetime - Date and time handler class.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  $date = ORM::Datetime->new( [ 2006, 1, 25, 10, 0, 0 ] );
  print $date->mysql_datetime,"\n";
  $date = $date->diff( [ 0, 0, -2, 0, 0, -70 ] );
  print $date->mysql_datetime,"\n";

  The output is:
  2006-01-25 10:00:00
  2005-11-25 09:58:50

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class introduces minimal interface to handle database
table fields of type 'DATETIME'. This class is descendant of
<ORM::Date> and behaves almost the same with few differences.

To see interface of the class please refer to C<ORM::Date>.
Members that behaves different than in C<ORM::Date> are listed below:

=head1 CONSTRUCTORS

=over

=item current()

Create date object corresponding to current date and time.
Opposite to C<ORM::Date> hour, minutes and seconds values
are set to current and not to zeroes.

=item earlier24h()

Create date object corresponding to yesterday date and current time.
Opposite to C<ORM::Date> hour, minutes and seconds values
are set to current and not to zeroes.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ORM::Date>

L<ORM::Meta::ORM::Datetime>

=head1 AUTHOR

Alexey V. Akimov

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Alexey V. Akimov

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

=cut
