=head1 NAME

ORM::Error - Error container class.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  $error = ORM::Error->new;
  Music::Song->find( error=>$error );
  
  print "Fatal error\n" if( $error->fatal );
  print "Some error\n" if( $error->any );
  
  $error->add_fatal( "Initiate fatal error" );
  $error->add_warn( "Initiate warning" );
  
  print $error->text;

=head1 CONSTRUCTORS

=over

=item new()

Constructor. Takes no argument. Returns empty error container.

=back 

=head1 OBJECT METHODS

=over

=item C<add_fatal( $error_message )>

Add fatal error message to a container. Return value is undefined.

=item C<add_warn( $error_message )>

Add warning to a container. Return value is undefined.

=item C<upto( $error_container )>

If C<$error_container> is specified then send all errors from C<$self>
container to C<$error_container> or do nothing otherwise.
Return value is undefined.

=item C<DESTROY>

In future implementations will throw exception if errors
were ignored by programmer.

=back

=head1 OBJECT PROPERTIES

=over

=item fatal()

Takes no argument. Returns true if container has at least one fatal error.

=item any()

Takes no argument. Returns true if container is not empty.

=item text()

Takes no argument. Returns plain text description of errors from container.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ORM>

L<ORM::Tutorial>

=head1 AUTHOR

Alexey V. Akimov

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Alexey V. Akimov

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

=cut

