# PODNAME: Test::Neo4j::Types
# ABSTRACT: Tools for testing Neo4j type modules

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Test::Neo4j::Types - Tools for testing Neo4j type modules

=head1 VERSION

version 0.03

=head1 OVERVIEW

This module distribution is experimental. Should the experiment
be deemed successful, it will eventually be merged with the
existing L<Neo4j-Types|https://metacpan.org/dist/Neo4j-Types>
distribution.

You probably shouldn't be using this module at this time, because
the requirements it checks for are evolving and might shift under
your feet at any moment. For further information, see
L<johannessen/neo4j-types Version 2 (milestone)|https://github.com/johannessen/neo4j-types/milestone/1>.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # For a node class that happens to have a new()
 # constructor with parameters that match the ones
 # given here exactly:
 neo4j_node_ok 'Local::Node', \&Local::Node::new;
 
 # For a node data structure that happens to match
 # the given parameters exactly:
 neo4j_node_ok 'Local::Node', sub {
   my ($class, $params) = @_;
   return bless { %$params }, $class;
 };
 
 # For a relationship data structure that needs
 # adapting from the given parameters:
 neo4j_relationship_ok 'Local::Reln', sub {
   my ($class, $params) = @_;
   return bless {
     %$params,
     start => $params->{start_id},
     end   => $params->{end_id},
   }, $class;
 };
 
 # For the typical path data structure:
 neo4j_path_ok 'Local::Path', sub {
   my ($class, $elements) = @_;
   return bless [ @$elements ], $class;
 };
 
 # For spatial / temporal data structures:
 neo4j_point_ok 'Local::Point', sub {...};
 neo4j_datetime_ok 'Local::Temporal::Instant', sub {...};
 neo4j_duration_ok 'Local::Temporal::Duration', sub {...};

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Offers a simple way to test your Neo4j::Types implementation for
correctness. These test tools not only verify that the required
methods are provided, they also try to verify that the methods
actually work as expected. While the checks provided by this
module certainly won't cover all requirements, they will cover
many of them.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

L<Test::Neo4j::Types> offers the following functions.
All functions are exported by default.

=head2 neo4j_datetime_ok

 sub datetime_new ($class, $params) {
   return bless { ... }, $class;
 }
 neo4j_datetime_ok $datetime_class, \&datetime_new;
 neo4j_datetime_ok $datetime_class, \&datetime_new, $subtest_name;

Verifies that C<$datetime_class> is a package that implements
the interface specified for temporal instants by L<Neo4j::Types>.

C<\&datetime_new> must be a reference to a subroutine that can
construct a new temporal instant of the type C<$datetime_class>
based on the parameters provided in the hash ref C<$params>.
The parameters have names exactly matching the methods in
L<Neo4j::Types::DateTime>, but epoch and type are not provided:

 $params = {
   days        => 6560,    # 1987-12-18
   nanoseconds => 0,
   seconds     => 72000,   # 20:00 UTC
   tz_name     => 'America/Los_Angeles',
   tz_offset   => -28800,  # UTC-08
 };

=head2 neo4j_duration_ok

 sub duration_new ($class, $params) {
   return bless { ... }, $class;
 }
 neo4j_duration_ok $duration_class, \&duration_new;
 neo4j_duration_ok $duration_class, \&duration_new, $subtest_name;

Verifies that C<$duration_class> is a package that implements
the interface specified for temporal durations by L<Neo4j::Types>.

C<\&duration_new> must be a reference to a subroutine that can
construct a new temporal instant of the type C<$duration_class>
based on the parameters provided in the hash ref C<$params>.
The parameters have names exactly matching the methods in
L<Neo4j::Types::Duration>:

 $params = {
   months      => 18,      # 1.5 years
   days        => 42,      # 12 weeks
   seconds     => 172800,  # 48 hours
   nanoseconds => 0,
 };

=head2 neo4j_node_ok

 sub node_new ($class, $params) {
   return bless { ... }, $class;
 }
 neo4j_node_ok $node_class, \&node_new;
 neo4j_node_ok $node_class, \&node_new, $subtest_name;

Verifies that C<$node_class> is a package that implements
the interface specified for nodes by L<Neo4j::Types>.

C<\&node_new> must be a reference to a subroutine that can
construct a new node of the type C<$node_class> based
on the parameters provided in the hash ref C<$params>.
The parameters have names exactly matching the methods in
L<Neo4j::Types::Node>:

 $params = {
   element_id => '4:a9bd8c39-9afb-4474-9890-c074b2002cf5:47',
   id         => 47,
   labels     => ['Label'],
   properties => { key => 'value' },
 };

=head2 neo4j_path_ok

 sub path_new ($class, $elements) {
   return bless [ @$elements ], $class;
 }
 neo4j_path_ok $path_class, \&path_new;
 neo4j_path_ok $path_class, \&path_new, $subtest_name;

Verifies that C<$path_class> is a package that implements
the interface specified for paths by L<Neo4j::Types>.

C<\&path_new> must be a reference to a subroutine that can
construct a new path of the type C<$path_class> based
on the elements provided in the array ref C<$elements>.
The elements are alternating between references that
represent nodes and relationships in the exact same order
as for L<Neo4j::Types::Path/"elements">:

 $elements = [
   $node_0,
   $relationship_0,
   $node_1,
   $relationship_1,
   $node_2,
 ];

Inside C<path_new>, these references will purport to perform
the L<Neo4j::Types::Node> and L<Neo4j::Types::Relationship>
roles, but shall be treated as opaque. Calling any methods
other than C<< ->DOES() >> on these references may fail.

=head2 neo4j_point_ok

 sub point_new ($class, $params) {
   return bless { ... }, $class;
 }
 neo4j_point_ok $point_class, \&point_new;
 neo4j_point_ok $point_class, \&point_new, $subtest_name;

Verifies that C<$point_class> is a package that implements
the interface specified for spatial points by L<Neo4j::Types>.

C<\&point_new> must be a reference to a subroutine that can
construct a new node of the type C<$point_class> based
on the parameters provided in the hash ref C<$params>.
The parameters have names exactly matching the methods in
L<Neo4j::Types::Point>:

 $params = {
   srid        => 4326,
   coordinates => [ $x, $y, $z ],
 };

=head2 neo4j_relationship_ok

 sub rel_new ($class, $params) {
   return bless { ... }, $class;
 }
 neo4j_relationship_ok $rel_class, \&rel_new;
 neo4j_relationship_ok $rel_class, \&rel_new, $subtest_name;

Verifies that C<$rel_class> is a package that implements
the interface specified for relationships by L<Neo4j::Types>.

C<\&rel_new> must be a reference to a subroutine that can
construct a new relationship of the type C<$rel_class> based
on the parameters provided in the hash ref C<$params>.
The parameters have names exactly matching the methods in
L<Neo4j::Types::Relationship>:

 $params = {
   element_id       => '5:a9bd8c39-9afb-4474-9890-c074b2002cf5:23',
   id               => 23,
   start_element_id => '4:a9bd8c39-9afb-4474-9890-c074b2002cf5:81',
   start_id         => 81,
   end_element_id   => '4:a9bd8c39-9afb-4474-9890-c074b2002cf5:82',
   end_id           => 82,
   properties       => { key => 'value' },
   type             => 'TYPE',
 };

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

The diagnostics are not particularly great. All of these tools
are implemented as simple subtests. You can run C<prove -v> and
obtain details about any failing checks, but you'll probably
have to compare the TAP output with this modules's source code
to make sense of them. Unfortunately, the tool source code is
more optimised for compactness that for readability, which of
course means me asking people to "just read the code" is quite
shameless. However, because the number of users this module
is anticipated to have is very low (maybe two or so), this
limitation is unlikely to be addressed.

The individual test names inside the subtests could be (and
probably should be) improved though. Ideally, the names of
failed tests would make sense even without reading the source.

As a consequence of the subtests, it appears to be difficult
to verify that these tools correctly identify non-conforming
implementations, which is of course the primary job of these
tools. So the testing of the tools themselves is incomplete.

Optional / "should" requirements may need to be checked, with
warnings or at least C<diag> messages issued if not met. These
warnings need to be individually selectable. One (naive but
perhaps adequate) way to implement this might be a global
C<@Test::Neo4j::Types::no_warnings> variable, which users
could then localise and configure as required.

If these tools are ever developed further than this, switching
to L<Test2::Manual::Tooling> should be considered.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Neo4j::Types::ImplementorNotes|https://github.com/johannessen/neo4j-types/blob/main/lib/Neo4j/Types/ImplementorNotes.pod>

=head1 AUTHOR

Arne Johannessen <ajnn@cpan.org>

If you contact me by email, please make sure you include the word
"Perl" in your subject header to help beat the spam filters.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2023 by Arne Johannessen.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Artistic License 2.0 or (at your option) the same terms
as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
