
=pod 

=head1 NAME 

=head2 conjug - Conjugation of Portuguese verbs

=head1 DESCRIPTION

   conjug [qvrcsxol] verb+, [tense]*, [1-6]*

 - tense is one of 
      pres    or      Presente, 
      perf    or      Perfeito, 
      imp     or      Imperfeito, 
      fut     or      Futuro,
      mdp     or      Mais Que Perfeito      or Mais-que-Perfeito,
      cpres   or      Conjuntivo Presente,
      cimp    or      Conjuntivo Imperfeito,
      cfut    or      Conjuntivo Futuro,
      ivo     or      Imperativo
      pp      or      Partic'ipio Passado
      grd     or      Gerundivo 

      default is all.  
 
 - The numbers 1-6 correspond to "eu", "tu", "ele"/"ela", "nós",
   "vós", "eles"/"elas".  Second person plural may be buggy, as it is
   a recent addition to the progam.  Default is all persons that
   apply to the tense.

  Returns the verb congugated at the requested tenses and persons as
  list of strings (one combination of tense, person each), one tense
  per row, one person per column, writing out, and a little more
  information : Typical output is :

      > conjug i ouvir ivo partic\'ipio passado grd presente
      ouvir :  irreg                               
      ivo              ouve  oi\ca oi\camos oi\cam 
      pp       ouvido                              
      grd      ouvindo                             
      pres     oi\co   ouves ouve  ouvimos  ouvem  

  Options

=over 4

=item  h

   Print this Help, then exit.

=item  q

   Quiet : Print only conjugated forms, with no extra stuff (see
         EXAMPLES). 

=item i

   Don't use Iso-8859-1 character set, but "^a"etc accents and
         "\c" cedilla.

=item  r

   Produce output as one person per Row, rather than the default
         one tense per row.

=item  x

   Each verb entry is a regular eXpression that matches a
         correct form.

=item  o

	 Separate results with commas and spaces rather than just spaces.

=item  l

	 Use long format for verbs, e.g. "presente" instead of "pres".



=back

=head2 

  ACCENTUATION / CEDILLA : by default, the output uses iso-accents.

  C-CEDILLA is written \c

  ACCENTS are written sharp : 'a,  grave : `a, circumflex : ^o etc. 


=head2 EXAMPLES :

 etienne@anonimo: conjug i ouvir pres
ouvir :  irreg                          
pres     oi\co ouves ouve ouvimos ouvem 

 etienne@anonimo: conjug i q ouvir pres
oi\co ouves ouve ouvimos ouvem 

 etienne@anonimo: conjug i qx ouvir pres
o[iu]\co ouves ouve ouvimos ouvem 


=head2 BUGS : 

=over 4

=item Cedillas must be protected from shell escape : you must write 
   ``conjug cal\\car''  or  ``conjug 'cal\car' '' if don't want
  your verb to become 'calcar'.

=item Options ``ir'' are interpreted as the verb ``ir''.

=item Second person plural may be buggy.

=back


=head1 SEE ALSO 

treinar, Lingua::PT::Conjugate.

=head1 VERSION 0.91

=head1 AUTHOR 

Etienne Grossmann, 1998-2013 [etienne@isr.ist.utl.pt] 

=cut


