=head1 NAME 

=head2 treinar - An Interactive Drilling Program for Portuguese Verbs

=head1 DESCRIPTION 

  treinar [-i] [verb [tense]]

  Will prompt the user to enter the correct forms. It should be quite
self-explaining (correct me if it isn't). 

  It displays the wanted verb and tense like this, and prompts you for
the first person singular, "eu". 


           ir                  Imperfeito                     

        eu 


  Entering the desired form and hitting carriage return <CR> validates
the entry, and "treinar" prompts you with the next line, e.g.



           ir                  Imperfeito                     

        eu ia
        tu


  The module Term::Readline is in charge of the input.

  After all relevant persons (eu,tu,ele/ela,n'os and eles/elas) are
passed, the correct and erroneous forms are shown.


           ir                  Imperfeito                     

        eu ia                  OK 
        tu ias                 OK 
   ele/ela ia                  OK 
      n'os iavomomos           Nope : 'iamos
 eles/elas iam                 OK 
Appending to .flunked_verbs


  The file ~/.flunked.verbs holds the verbs that you have flunked last
time you were drilled on it. "treinar" chooses verbs and tenses at
random, either from that file, or from other verbs it knows of. Or
else, it uses user specified verbs and tenses, which may be entered
either on the shell command line, or at any moment, by entering a line
like :

           t ir Imperfeito

  to say that, after I've finished the present verb, I'll want to
check my skills at conjugating "ir" at tense "imperfecto". "treinar"
will clear that line, and prompt me to continue the verb I had
started.

=head2 ACCENTUATION

uses iso 8859-1 characters when the C<-i> option is passed. Entering a
single "i" on a line will toggle iso-accentuation.

=head2 FIXING THE TENSE

is done by entering line with a "f" followed by a tense, in
abbreviated form. A single "f" on a line will either fix the tense to
the current tense, or toggle off fixed-tense-mode.

=head2 QUITTING 

can be done by entering a line with a single "q". (The current verb
will not be considered as "flunked").

=head2 CORRECTING A PREVIOUS ENTRY

(before having validated the verb's last entry) is done by entering a
line like  

        c n'os 'iamos

to say that I want the first person plural to be corrected to
"'iamos".

        c 5 'iamos

will also do.

=head2 PRERIQUISITES

	   Term::ReadLine


=head2 BUGS 

  treinar may be fragile, especially since it moves the cursor around
by  priting the strings "\33\133A", "\33\133B", "\33\133C" and
"\33\133D". 

  It is not very pedagogic. 


=head1 SEE ALSO 

Lingua::PT::Conjugate, conjug.

=head1 VERSION 0.90

=head1 AUTHOR 

Etienne Grossmann, January 1998 [etienne@isr.ist.utl.pt] 
 
