=pod

=head1 NAME

Lingua::Names - test a string to see if it is a first name

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use Lingua::Names 'is_name';

   for my $string (qw/leo james jawf 44 lUCy/){

      printf "is name '$string'? %s\n",
         ( 
            is_name($string) 
               ? 'yes' 
               : 'no' 
         );
   }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I wanted to test strings to see if the looked like names, first names. 
There seemed not to be anything out there. After discussion on perlmonks.. Here it is.

This module is very basic. It only tests against a selection of names from a United States census. 
As of this version:
   Total female names: 3944
   Male names: 1219
   Total: 5163

=head1 SUBS

None are exported by default.

=head2 is_name()

Argument is string. 
Returns true or false.
Truth is returned as the value passed.

Useful for something like :

   my $name = is_name($arg)
      or warn("Not name.")
      and next;


=head1 CAVEATS

In development, alpha. 
Please contact AUTHOR with any suggestions, crit, complaints, etc.. AUTHOR is very open to peer review.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Peter Hickman's L<Data::RandomPerson>, most of the names are taken from here. Sadly, you can't ask those modules for a list.

=head1 THANKS

"skim" - helped with documentation.

=head1 AUTHOR

Leo Charre leocharre at cpan dot org

=head1 LICENSE

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself, i.e., under the terms of the "Artistic License" or the "GNU General Public License".

=head1 DISCLAIMER

This package is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

See the "GNU General Public License" for more details.

=cut

