# PODNAME: DBIO::Manual
# ABSTRACT: Index of the Manual

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

DBIO::Manual - Index of the Manual

=head1 VERSION

version 0.900000

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the L<DBIO> users manual. DBIO is a SQL->OOP mapper.
This means that it can represent your SQL tables as perl classes, and give
you convenient accessors and methods for retrieving and updating information
from your SQL database.

=head1 SECTIONS

=head2 L<DBIO::Manual::FAQ>

Short answers and doc pointers to questions.

=head2 L<DBIO::Manual::Glossary>

Explanations of terms used in this documentation.

=head2 L<DBIO::Manual::Intro>

Beginner guide to using DBIO.

=head2 L<DBIO::Manual::Example>

An example of slightly more complex usage.

=head2 L<DBIO::Manual::Joining>

How to translate known SQL JOINs into DBIO-ish.

=head2 L<DBIO::Manual::Cookbook>

Convenient recipes for DBIO usage.

=head2 L<DBIO::Manual::Reading>

How to read (and write) the reference documentation.

=head2 L<DBIO::Manual::DocMap>

Lists of modules by task to help you find the correct document.

=head2 L<DBIO::Manual::Troubleshooting>

Got trouble? Let us shoot it for you.

=head2 L<DBIO::Manual::Migration>

Step-by-step guide for migrating an existing L<DBIx::Class> codebase to DBIO.

=head2 L<DBIO::Manual::Component>

Existing components, and documentation and example on how to
develop new ones.

=head1 AUTHOR

DBIO & DBIx::Class Authors

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2026 DBIO Authors
Portions Copyright (C) 2005-2025 DBIx::Class Authors
Based on DBIx::Class, heavily modified.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
