# -*- Perl -*-
=pod

=head1 Data Access API

IBM::LoadLeveler - Data Access API

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use IBM::LoadLeveler;

  $version = ll_version();

  # Data Access API functions

  $query = ll_query( JOBS|MACHINES|CLUSTER|WLMSTAT|MATRIX|CLASSES|RESERVATIONS|MCLUSTERS|BLUE_GENE|FAIRSHARE );

  $return = ll_set_request( $query,QUERY_ALL|QUERY_JOBID|QUERY_STEPID|\
	QUERY_GROUP|QUERY_CLASS|QUERY_HOST|QUERY_STARTDATE|QUERY_ENDDATE|\
	QUERY_PROCID|QUERY_RESERVATION_ID|QUERY_BG_JOB|QUERY_BG_PARTITION|\
        QUERY_BG_BASE_PARTITION|QUERY_TOP_DOG, \@filter,ALL_DATA|Q_LINE|STATUS_LINE );

  $object = ll_get_objs( $query, LL_STARTD|LL_SCHEDD|LL_CM|LL_MASTER|\
	LL_STARTER|LL_HISTORY_FILE, $hostname, $number_of_objs, $error_code);

  $return = ll_reset_request( $object );

  $next_object = ll_next_obj ( $object );

  $return = ll_free_objs ( $object );

  $return = ll_deallocate ( $object );

  $result = ll_get_data( $object, $LLAPI_Specification );


=head1 DESCRIPTION


A minimal example of using the Data Access API is:

	use IBM::LoadLeveler;

	# Query Job information
	$query = ll_query(JOBS);

	# Ask for all data on all jobs
	$return=ll_set_request($query,QUERY_ALL,undef,ALL_DATA);
	if ($return != 0 )
	{
	    print STDERR "ll_set_request failed Return = $return\n";
	}

	# Query the scheduler for information
	# $number will contain the number of objects returned

	$job=ll_get_objs($query,LL_CM,NULL,$number,$err);

	while ( $job)
	{
		# Get the Job submit time
		$SubmitTime=ll_get_data($job,LL_JobSubmitTime);
		$job=ll_next_obj($query);
	}
	# Free up space allocated by LoadLeveler to hold the job object
	ll_free_objs($job);

	# Free up space used by the Query Object
	ll_deallocate($query);

The Data Access API has the following functions:

=over 4

=item * ll_query

=item * ll_set_request

=item * ll_reset_request

=item * ll_get_objs

=item * ll_get_data

=item * ll_next_obj

=item * ll_free_objs

=item * ll_deallocate

=back

=head2 ll_query

	$query = ll_query( JOBS | MACHINES | CLUSTER | WLMSTAT | MATRIX | CLASSES | RESERVATIONS | MCLUSTERS | BLUE_GENE | FAIRSHARE);

ll_query is the first call you make to access the API it establishes the type of information you receive.

Note: 

=over 4

=item *	CLASSES query is only available in version LoadLeveler 3.2 and above.

=item * RESERVATIONS requires LoadLeveler 3.3+

=item * MCLUSTERS & BLUE_GENE require LoadLeveler 3.3.1+

=item * FAIRSHARE requires LoadLeveler 3.3.2+

=back

=head2 ll_set_request

	$return=ll_set_request($query,$QueryFlags,$ObjectFilter, $DataFilter);

ll_set_request is used to determine the range of data returned by ll_get_objs.


=head3 Parameters

=over 4

=item 1 $query

The return from L<ll_query>

=item 2 $QueryFlags

The permissable Query Flags depends on the type of query being made.  The flags are:

=over 4

=item * QUERY_ALL
: Query all jobs.

=item * QUERY_JOBID
: Query by job ID.

=item * QUERY_STEPID
: Query by step ID.

=item * QUERY_USER
: Query by user ID.

=item * QUERY_GROUP
: Query by LoadLeveler group.

=item * QUERY_CLASS
: Query by LoadLeveler class.

=item * QUERY_HOST
: Query by machine name.

=item * QUERY_STARTDATE
: Query by job start dates

=item * QUERY_ENDDATE
: Query by job end dates.

=item * QUERY_PROCID
: Query by process id.

=item * QUERY_RESERVATION_ID
: Query by reservation id.

=item * QUERY_BG_JOB
: Query by bluegene type jobs only

=item * QUERY_BG_PARTITION
: Query defined Blue Gene partitions

=item * QUERY_BG_BASE_PARTITIONS
: Query Blue Gene base partitions

=item * QUERY_TOP_DOG
: Query by Job steps that are top dogs

=back

They can be used with the following query types:

	Query Type	Permitted Flags
	-------------------------------
        BLUE_GENE       QUERY_ALL QUERY_BG_BASE_PARTITION QUERY_BG_PARTITION
        CLASSES         QUERY_ALL QUERY_CLASS
        CLUSTER         QUERY_ALL
        FAIRSHARE       QUERY_ALL QUERY_USER QUERY_GROUP
        JOBS            QUERY_ALL QUERY_BG_JOB QUERY_CLASS QUERY_ENDDATE QUERY_GROUP QUERY_HOST QUERY_JOBID QUERY_RESERVATION_ID QUERY_STARTDATE QUERY_STEPID QUERY_USER QUERY_TOP_DOG
        MACHINES        QUERY_ALL QUERY_HOST
        MATRIX          QUERY_ALL QUERY_HOST
        MCLUSTERS       QUERY_ALL
        RESERVATIONS    QUERY_ALL QUERY_BG_BASE_PARTITION QUERY_GROUP QUERY_HOST QUERY_RESERVATION_ID QUERY_USER
        WLMSTAT         QUERY_STEPID

=item 3 $ObjectFilter


Specifies the search criteria:

	Query Flag	Filter Description
	---------------------------------------
	QUERY_ALL		undef
	QUERY_JOBID		Array reference of job IDs eg ["host.jobid1", "host.jobid2"]
	QUERY_STEPID		Array reference of step IDs eg ["host.jobid.stepid"]
	QUERY_USER		Array reference of user IDs eg ["mike", "mark", "mary"]
	QUERY_CLASS		Array reference of LoadLeveler class names.
	QUERY_GROUP		Array reference of LoadLeveler group names.
	QUERY_HOST		Array reference of LoadLeveler host names.
	QUERY_STARTDATE or QUERY_ENDDATE	two start dates or two end dates having the format MM/DD/YYYY eg ["01/14/2003", "02/23/2003"].
	QUERY_PROCID		Array reference containing a single process id terminated by a NULL string eg ["procid",NULL].
	QUERY_RESERVATION_ID	Array reference containing a list of reervation IDs.
	QUERY_BG_BASE_PARTITION	Array reference of base partition IDs. For all base partitions, the first entry in the list must contain the string "all"
	QUERY_BG_PARTITION	Array reference of partition IDs. For all base partitions, the first entry in the list must contain the string "all"
	QUERY_TOP_DOG		Array reference of job step

=over 4

=item NOTE:

QUERY_PROCID is currently broken, some of the return fields don't return a value and it does not work at all with GANG scheduling.  APAR is IY48329

=back

=item 4 $DataFilter

Filters the amount of data you get back from the query. Permitted values are:

=over  4

=item * ALL_DATA

=item * Q_LINE

Valid only for a JOBS query, not using the history file, returns the same data as B<llq -f>

=item * STATUS_LINE

Valid only for a MACHINES query, returns the same data as B<llstatus -f>

=back

=back

=head2 ll_reset_request


	$return=ll_reset_request($query);

This is used to reset the request (surprise!) associated with a query object, you use it if you want to do another L<ll_set_request> using different parameters.

=head2 ll_get_objs

	$data=ll_get_objs($query,$query_daemon,$host,$number,$err);

Sends a query request to LoadLeveler

=head3 Parameters

=over 4

=item 1 $query

Data from ll_query

=item 2 $query_daemon

The LoadLeveler Daemon you want to query, permitted values are:

=over 4

=item * LL_STARTD

=item * LL_SCHEDD

=item * LL_CM (negotiator)

=item * LL_MASTER

=item * LL_STARTER

=item * LL_HISTORY_FILE

=back

=item 3 $host

Should be NULL unless you are querying LL_STARTD or LL_SCHEDD and want to query a machine other than the localhost. If you are querying LL_HISTORY_FILE then this should be the name of the history file.

=item 4 $number

The number of query objects returned.

=item 5 $error

If there is an error this is it. Possible values are:


=over 4

=item -1 query_element not valid

=item -2 query_daemon not valid

=item -3 Cannot resolve hostname

=item -4 Request type for specified daemon not valid

=item -5 System error

=item -6 No valid objects meet the request

=item -7 Configuration error

=item -9 Connection to daemon failed

=item -10 Error processing history file (LL_HISTORY_FILE query only)

=item -11 History file must be specified in the hostname argument (LL_HISTORY_FILE query only)

=item -12 Unable to access the history file (LL_HISTORY_FILE query only)

=item -13 DCE identity of calling program can not be established

=item -14 No DCE credentials

=item -15 DCE credentials within 300 secs of expiration

=item -16 64-bit API is not supported when DCE is enabled

=back

=back

=head2 ll_get_data

	$data=ll_get_data($element,$specification);

This call differs from the IBM documentation, the data you request is returned as the return value and not as a third parameter eg

	$lav=ll_get_data($machine,LL_MachineLoadAverage);	# Returns a double

	@msl=ll_get_data($machine,LL_MachineStepList);		# Returns an array of strings.

To know what you are getting you really need to know about the LoadLeveler Job Object Model.  All of this is in the I<IBM LoadLeveler for AIX 5L: Using and Administering> book and html. Sorry for not including it here, but there is an awful lot of it.


-head3 enum types

Returns from some query types may be, in C terms, enumerated types.  In perl these all return as SCALAR Integers.  Return values are shown below:

=over 4

=item LL_AdapterReqUsage

    SHARED, NOT_SHARED, SLICE_NOT_SHARED

=item LL_StepHoldType

    NO_HOLD, HOLDTYPE_USER, HOLDTYPE_SYSTEM, HOLDTYPE_USERSYS

=item LL_StepNodeUsage

    SHARED, NOT_SHARED, SLICE_NOT_SHARED

=item LL_StepState

    STATE_IDLE, STATE_PENDING, STATE_STARTING, STATE_RUNNING,
    STATE_COMPLETE_PENDING, STATE_REJECT_PENDING, STATE_REMOVE_PENDING,
    STATE_VACATE_PENDING, STATE_COMPLETED, STATE_REJECTED, STATE_REMOVED,
    STATE_VACATED, STATE_CANCELED, STATE_NOTRUN, STATE_TERMINATED,
    STATE_UNEXPANDED, STATE_SUBMISSION_ERR, STATE_HOLD, STATE_DEFERRED,
    STATE_NOTQUEUED, STATE_PREEMPTED, STATE_PREEMPT_PENDING, 
    STATE_RESUME_PENDING

=back

=head2 ll_next_obj

	$job=ll_next_obj($query);

This returns the next object from the query object.

=head2 ll_free_objs

	$return=ll_free_objs($query);

This frees up the the space taken by the ll_get_objs routine for the LoadLeveler Data.  Since there is probably an awful lot of this this is a very important call.

=head2 ll_deallocate

	$return=ll_deallocate($query);

Frees the query object itself, this is the last LoadLeveler action.

=head2 LL_MachinePoolList & LL_AdapterWindowList

These two requests are supposed to return integer arrays.  In this module they will return lists.

=over 4

=item * LL_MachinePoolList

This will return a list with LL_MachinePoolListSize elements in it.

=item * LL_AdapterWindowList

This will return a list with LL_AdapterTotalWindowCount elements in it.

=item * Blue Gene

The Blue Gene arrays are all 3 elements in size.

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Mike Hawkins <mike@pink-pit.com>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<LoadLeveler> L<perl>.
IBM LoadLeveler for AIX 5L: Using and Administering

=cut
