=head1 NAME

CHANGES - Revision history for Text::Similarity

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=over

=item 0.13

Released October 7, 2015 (all changes by TDP) 

=over

=item * 

Misc pod fixes, primarily those reported by Alex Becker to bug list.

=back

=back

=over

=item 0.11

Released October 6, 2015 (all changes by TDP)

=over

=item *

Contributed enhancement by Tani Hosokawa :
Not a bug, but an optimization. Original version
does inefficient repeated linear search over text
that can't possibly match. Instead, precaches
locations of keywords. Comparing 100 semi-randomly
generated fairly similar documents of about 500
words each results in approx 90% speed increase,
the efficiency increases as the documents get larger.
https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Ticket/Attachment/999948/520850

=item *

Make various documentation/typo fixes as suggested by
Alex Becker. Found in CPAN bug list.

=back

=back

=over

=item 0.10

Released June 26, 2013 

=over 

=item *

Version 0.09 did not fix the windows testing error that we thought was fixed in 0.09.
We think it has been fixed now. :) 

=back 

=back 

=over

=item 0.09

Released January 22, 2013 

=over

=item *

This release includes changes contributed by Myroslava Dzikovska that provide
the full set of similarity scores programmatically. She modified the interface 
so that the getSimilarity function returns a pair  ($score, %allScores) where 
%allScores is a hash of all possible scores that it computes. She made it so 
that in scalar context it will only return $score, so it is fully backwards 
compatible with the older versions. She also changed the printing to 
STDERR, to make it easier to use the code in filter scripts that depend 
on STDIN/STDOUT.

=item *

This release also inludes changes ontributed by Nathan Glen to allow test
cases to pass on Windows. The single quote used previously caused arguments
to the script not to be passed corrected, leading to test failures. The single
quotes have been changed to double quotes. 

=back

=back

=over

=item 0.08

Released June 11, 2010 (all changes by YL)

=over 

=item *

Changed the stoplist option. stoplist file can be one word per line or one word 
in the regular expression format per line, or the mix of these two formats.  

=back 

=item 0.07

Released November 14, 2008 (all changes by TDP)

=over 

=item *

Changed test case that was tripping up Windows. In Linux these are 
treated as being the same (when order doesn't matter) but this is not 
the case in Windows. 

	'sir winston churchill' 'winston churchill SIR!!!' 

The case has been changed to :

	'sir winston churchill' 'winston churchill sir' 

=back

=item 0.06

Released April 5, 2008 (all changes by TDP)

=over

=item *

Added Dice coefficient to Overlaps.pm output. Dice is equivalent to 
F-measure, but formulated slightly differently so could be useful to 
catch errors. 

=item *

Modified Overlaps method to provide lesk text matching score, that is 
the sum of the squared lengths of all phrasal matches 
(optionally normalized by the product of the lengths of the strings). It 
provides both Raw lesk and lesk (the normalized form) when run in 
verbose mode. 

=item *

Reogranized some documentation to make it more clear that Overlaps is
just one possible way of measuring similarity, and that other methods can
and should be added.

=item *

Renamed text_compare.pl as the more natural and fitting text_similarity.pl

=back

=item 0.05

Released April 4, 2008 (all changes by TDP)

=over

=item *

Made it possible for users to input strings directly via text_compare.pl and
getSimilarityStrings. Previously it was only possible to directly measure the 
similarity of files, but now strings can be measured. 

=back

=item 0.04

Released March 21, 2008 (all changes by TDP)

=over

=item *

Introduced tests for text_compare.pl (t/text_compare.t) - added support 
for os neutral file reads via FILE::SPEC in this and other .t files.

=item *

Introduced tests for getOverlaps (t/overlaps.t)

=item *

Improved synopsis examples to show how to pass options via arguments in 
hashes

=item *

Clarified that stemming and compounding are not currently supported
disabled compfile option in text_compare.pl

=item *

Made file handling in text_compare more robust so that when a file does 
not exist an error message is given and failure is immediate

=item *

Changed method of passing constants in test cases from (eg.)
"Text::Similarity::NORMALIZE" to "normalize" in order to support 
backwards compatability with perl 5.6.

=item *

Introduce normalize and no-normalize tests for getSimilarity

=item *

Fix Similarity.pm Synopsis example not to use files in /t that are no 
longer available

=back

=item 0.03 

Released March 20, 2008 (all changes by TDP)

=over

=item *

fix divide by zero errors reported on cpan by cernst at esoft.com, who also provided fix

=item *

update test cases to improve coverage of partial matches and no matches

=item *

update synopsis examples so they can be run via cut and paste

=item *

improve README content to make it more descriptive

=item *

introduce /doc directory for pod of INSTALL README and CHANGES

=item *

introduce 'use constant' to support perl 5.6

=back

=item 0.02 

Released October 16, 2004, all changes by JM

=over 

=item *

fixed overlap finding & added new module Text::OverlapFinder

=item *

improved command-line interface

=item *

improved documentation and help messages

=item *

added support for a stoplist

=back

=item 0.01 

Released September 23, 2004, all changes by JM

=over

=item *

original version; created by h2xs 1.23 with options -b 5.6.0 -A -X Text::Similarity

=back

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth
 tpederse at d.umn.edu

 Ying Liu, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities
 liux0395 at umn.edu

This document last modified by :
$Id: CHANGES.pod,v 1.4 2015/10/08 13:11:44 tpederse Exp $

=head1 SEE ALSO

<L http://text-similarity.sourceforge.net> 

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2004-2010 Ted Pedersen

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
Texts.

Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on
the web at L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in
this distribution as FDL.txt.

=cut
