=head1 NAME

HTML::DBTable - Simply create edit forms for database tables

=head1 SYNOPSIS



=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 PUBLIC METHODS

=over 4

=item C<new>

Create the object.

=back

=head2 PUBLIC VARIABLES

No public variables defined

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

No diagnostics error returned.

=head1 EXPORT

Nothing to export.

=head1 REQUIRES 

=head1 SUPPORT

Contact directly the author or submit a bug to

http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=HTML-DBTable

=head1 AUTHOR

HTML::DBTable - Simply create edit forms for database tables

Emiliano Bruni, E<lt>info <at> ebruni <dot> itE<gt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Emiliano Bruni (info <at> ebruni <dot> it)

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either:

a) the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 1, or (at your option) any later version,
or

b) the "Artistic License" which comes with this module.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See either
the GNU General Public License or the Artistic License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the Artistic License with this
module, in the file ARTISTIC.  If not, I'll be glad to provide one.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307
USA

=cut
