
=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

WWW::WWWJDIC - information about online Japanese dictionary WWWJDIC

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    
    use utf8;
    use WWW::WWWJDIC;
    my $wj = WWW::WWWJDIC->new (mirror => 'usa');
    print $wj->lookup_url ('日本'), "\n";


produces output

    http://www.edrdg.org/cgi-bin/wwwjdic/wwwjdic?QMUJ%E6%97%A5%E6%9C%AC_3


(This example is included as L<F<synopsis.pl>|https://fastapi.metacpan.org/source/BKB/WWW-WWWJDIC-0.005/examples/synopsis.pl> in the distribution.)


=head1 VERSION

This documents WWW::WWWJDIC version 0.005
corresponding to git commit L<d12f085ac5039c3b3fec766b36c7995a022ce383|https://github.com/benkasminbullock/WWW-WWWJDIC/commit/d12f085ac5039c3b3fec766b36c7995a022ce383> released on Tue Feb 13 09:32:00 2018 +0900.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Get information about the WWWJDIC online Japanese dictionaries.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 get_mirrors

    my %mirrors = get_mirrors ();

Get a list of mirrors of WWWJDIC. The keys are arbitrary identifiers,
and the values are the URLs of the mirrors.  As of this version, the
following sites are available:

=over

=item australia

L<http://nihongo.monash.edu/cgi-bin/wwwjdic>

=item canada

L<http://www.ottix.net/cgi-bin/wwwjdic/wwwjdic>

=item germany

L<http://wwwjdic.biz/cgi-bin/wwwjdic>

=item sweden

L<http://wwwjdic.se/cgi-bin/wwwjdic.cgi>

=item usa

L<http://www.edrdg.org/cgi-bin/wwwjdic/wwwjdic>

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

    my $wwwjdic = WWW::WWWJDIC->new (mirror => "japan")

Create the object which extracts the information from WWWJDIC. 

The arguments are a hash with the following keys:

=over

=item mirror

Set the mirror site to use for L</lookup_url>. The possible values can
be obtained from L</get_mirrors>. If you do not specify a mirror, the
current default value is C<usa>.

Please note that mirrors may change or go out of service, and new
mirrors may be created. The above mirrors are obtained using the
script F<boot/scrape-json.pl> in the git repository. This script is
not part of the CPAN distribution.

=back

=head2 lookup_url

    my $url = $wwwjdic->lookup_url ($key);

Make a lookup url (the "backdoor URL") which links to a WWWJDIC
page. As of version 0.005, this URL goes to the combined
dictionary page.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item WWWJDIC user guide

L<WWWJDIC Japanese Dictionary Server User Guide|http://nihongo.monash.edu/wwwjdicinf.html>

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

=over

=item L<URI::Escape>

This is used by L</lookup_url> to form the URL.

=item L<JSON::Parse>

This is used to parse the information about WWWJDIC, which is
internally stored in the JSON format.

=back

=head1 BUGS

=over

=item *

Mirrors (including the main edrdg one) frequently go out of service.

=item *

The return value of L</lookup_url> may become invalid as WWWJDIC's
options are often changed so that different letters and numbers are
used to indicate the various dictionaries.

=item *

There is no way to set the dictionary in L</lookup_url>.

=item *

There is no way to get the URL for the plain text output of WWWJDIC.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

I started this module as a scraper for the WWWJDIC web site in around
2009. I released it to CPAN in 2017, but with documentation unwritten
and with scraper code which no longer worked. Currently the only
active use I have for this module is to get the list of mirrors. In
version 0.003 I removed the scraper code, leaving only the method
L</lookup_url> and the function L</get_mirrors>.

Version 0.005 updates the mirror list to remove the Melbourne
University and "gengo.com" mirrors.



=head1 AUTHOR

Ben Bullock, <bkb@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENCE

This package and associated files are copyright (C) 
2009-2018
Ben Bullock.

You can use, copy, modify and redistribute this package and associated
files under the Perl Artistic Licence or the GNU General Public
Licence.



