
=pod

=head1 NAME

Test::WWW::Mechanize::Driver::Manual - Writing Tests for Test::WWW::Mechanize::Driver

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Test::WWW::Mechanize::Driver Allows one to write Test::WWW::Mechanize tests
in YAML. This module will load the tests make a plan and run the tests.
Supports every-page tests, SKIP, TODO, and any object supporting the
Test::WWW::Mechanize interface.

 # sample .t file:
 use strict; use warnings;
 use Test::WWW::Mechanize::Driver;
 use Test::More;

 my $tester = Test::WWW::Mechanize::Driver->new(
   load => [ glob( "t/*.yaml" ) ],
   add_to_plan => 10,    # optional
 );

 ok( ... ); # ... 10 of your own tests
 $tester->run;

This document focuses on the test data format. See the
L<Test::WWW::Mechanize::Driver|Test::WWW::Mechanize::Driver> documentation
for information about writing the perl test driver (*.t) files if you need
something more fancy than the above example. Examples in this document use
YAML syntax though it is possible with alternate loaders to store tests in
another format such as raw perl code.

=head1 Test File Structure

Each file is called a "stream" which may consist of one or more "documents"
(this is consistent with YAML terminology). Each document may be any of a
scalar, hash (mapping in YAMLspeak), or array (sequence). Plain scalar
documents are treated as comments and are completely ignored by the driver
module. Hash documents may be used to set default settings for test
documents following the hash document. Finally, array documents are test
documents and contain a list of hashes which define the tests.

A simple example showing all three document types:

 --- |
 
 This is a comment document (denoted by the | following the document
 separator), ignored by Test::WWW::Mechanize::Driver. It might be used to
 describe the test file or to disable blocks of tests.
 
 ---
 
 # This is a default settings document. YAML comments (such as this one)
 # may appear here. The following line will set a default "tag" for each
 # test in this file following this document (it would not affect tests
 # before this point). [note: tags are not used by the driver, but may be
 # used by a custom "after_response" callback.]
 
 tag: basic_tests
 
 ---
 
 # This is a test document. Each item defines an arbitrary number of
 # subtests.
 
 # check title and contents in random order
 - uri: http://google.com/
   description: Google main page
   title_is: Google
   contains:
     - Advanced Search
     - Preferences
 
 # Ensure title is tested before contents
 - uri: http://yahoo.com/
   description: Yahoo main page
   actions:
     - title_is: Yahoo!
     - contains:
       - My Yahoo!
       - '<li class="mailstatus">Check your mail status:'


=head1 Test Documents

The core keys of a test group are.

=over 4

=item uri | url

The only required parameter. Specifies the origin URI for the test group.
This page will be automatically loaded by the mechanize object. "url" is an
alias for "uri".

=item parameters | parms | params

Optional hash of parameters to send with the request.

=item method

Optional HTTP request method. One of GET, POST, PUT, DELETE.

=item description

Optional test description. Will be added to test messages.

=item actions

List of mechanize tests and actions to perform. As a convenience, action
items may be placed in the top-level hash (along with "uri", etc.). Note,
however, that actions at the top level will be executed in an arbitrary
order, therefore, any actions involving form submission or that otherwise
alter the mechanize object's state should be placed in the actions array.

=item SKIP

=item TODO

If included, the entire test group will be skipped or marked TODO. The
value of these options will be used as the message passed to Test::Builder.

=back 4

=head2 Action Items

Action item keys are Test::WWW::Mechanize test method names. The values are
given as parameters to the corresponding method. The test driver defines a
few aliases so that any of the C<content_*> methoids may leave off the
"content_" part. Further, the test driver knows which methods operate on
only a single item (such as C<content_contains>, C<title_like>, ...) and
will automatically and properly hand array values.

Example:

 - uri: http://google.com/
   actions:
     - title_is: Google
     - contains:
       - Advanced Search
       - Preferences
     - submit_form_ok:
         q: foo
         btnG: Google Search
     - contains:
       - en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foo

is equivalent to:

 $mech->get_ok("http://google.com/");
 $mech->title_is("Google");
 $mech->content_contains("Advanced Search");
 $mech->content_contains("Preferences");
 $mech->submit_form_ok({ q => "foo", btnG => "Google Search" });
 $mech->content_contains("en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foo");

Note, the above YAML could have been written:

 - uri: http://google.com/
   title_is: Google
   contains:
     - Advanced Search
     - Preferences
   actions:
     - submit_form_ok:
         q: foo
         btnG: Google Search
     - contains:
       - en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foo

In which case the title_is and first pair of content_contains tests would
have run first in random order, but the form submission and final
content_contains test would be performed afterward in the proper order.

=head2 Mechanize Actions

Mechanize actions may be placed into the action list as long as they have a
true value in C<%Test::WWW::Mechanize::Driver::mech_action>. ARRAY or HASH
values undergo exactly one level of "unwrapping".

 # calls $mechanize->foo( "bar", "baz" )
 foo:
   - bar
   - baz

 # calls $mechanize->foo( ["bar", "baz"] )
 foo:
   -
     - bar
     - baz

=head2 Magic Values (applying templates, posting files)

By placing object references which overload stringification into your test
descriptions, you can upload external files or create dynamic templated
parameters.

The YAML syntax for blessing an object is: C<!!perl/REFTYPE:PACKAGE>.
Test::WWW::Mechanize::Driver defines three classes:

=head3 FileContents

Stringifies to file contents. Files are read in binmode. Sample usage:

 - uri: http://example.com/uploader
   method: PUT
   parameters:
     myfile: !!perl/scalar:FileContents t/test-file.pdf

=head3 ApplyTemplate

Fills in a string using Template.pm.

 - uri: http://example.com/schedule
   parameters:
     date: !!perl/scalar:ApplyTemplate '[% today.strftime("%Y-%m-%d") %]'

Some variables will be made available to the template:

=over 4

=item t

The test group object. Includes all keys defined in the test suite (uri,
parameters, description, ...) including custom keys. Is the same object
passed to the after_request callback so any modifications made there will be
available as well.

=item now

The current date as a DateTime object.

=back

=head3 Stacked

This class takes an array reference and blesses the 0th entry into the
class named in the 1st entry. It then stringifies the result and repeats
the process with the class given in the next entry. Arbitrarily many
classes may be stacked in this way.

 - uri: http://example.com/message
   method: POST
   user_name: Bob Smiley
   parameters:
     message: !!perl/array:Stacked [ t/test-message.tt, FileContents, ApplyTemplate ]

Sample contents of test-message.tt:

 Dude, this webpage rocks! - [% t.user_name %]




=head1 AUTHOR

The original version of this code written by Dean Serenevy while under
contract with National Financial Management who graciously allowed me to
release it to the public.

 Dean Serenevy
 dean@serenevy.net
 https://serenevy.net/

=head1 LICENSE

This software is hereby placed into the public domain. If you use this
code, a simple comment in your code giving credit and an email letting
me know that you find it useful would be courteous but is not required.

The software is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind, either
expressed or implied including, but not limited to, the implied warranties
of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. In no event shall
the authors or copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages or other
liability, whether in an action of contract, tort or otherwise, arising
from, out of or in connection with the software or the use or other
dealings in the software.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<WWW::Mechanize>, L<Test::WWW::Mechanize>, L<Test::WWW::Mechanize::Driver>

=cut
