
=head1 NAME

 SyslogScan::Daemon::BlacklistDetector::Postfix - recognize the postfix mailer's bounce lines

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 bld_plugin SyslogScan::Daemon::BlacklistDetector::Postfix
	debug		1
	rx_ourIP	216\.240\.47\.\d+
	logpath		/var/log/mail.log

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SyslogScan::Daemon::BlacklistDetector::Postfix
knows where to find the postfix MTAs log files and how
to parse them for bounce information.

SyslogScan::Daemon::BlacklistDetector::Postfix is a plugin for
L<SyslogScan::Daemon::BlacklistDetector>.  
The SYNOPSIS shows the configuration
lines you might use in C</etc/syslogscand.conf> to turn on
the postfix parsing.

=head1 CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS

SyslogScan::Daemon::BlacklistDetector::Postfix defines the following configuration
parameters which may be given in indented lines that follow
C<plugin SyslogScan::Daemon::BlacklistDetector::Postfix> or with the
confuration prefix (C<blden_>) anywhere in the configuration file after the 
C<plugin SyslogScan::Daemon::BlacklistDetector::Postfix> line.

=over 15

=item debug

(default 0) Turn on debugging.

=item rx_ourIP

(no default, optional) A regular expression to match the part of the log line that
would represent the sending IP address. 

=item logpath

(default C</var/log/mail.log>)

=back

=head1 parse_logs() INFO

In addition to the required return elements, parse_logs() also returns:

=over 15

=item prefix

If postfix is logging itself as C<postfix-somthing> instead of C<postfix>, then
C<prefix> will be the C<something>.

=item rx

The regular expression that matched.

=item mobj

The SyslogScan::Daemon::BlacklistDetector::Postfix object.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

The context for the blacklist detector:
L<SyslogScan::Daemon::BlacklistDetector>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2006, David Muir Sharnoff <muir@idiom.com>

This module may be used and copied on the same terms as Perl
itself.

