=head1 NAME

App::RPi::EnvUI::Configuration - Configuration options for L<App::RPi::EnvUI>

=head1 CONFIGURATION FILE

A default distribution configuration file is housed in the C<src/> directory
named C<envui-dist.json>. This file gets copied into C<config/envui.json> for
normal usage during the C<perl Makefile.PL> stage. Edit this file to modify the
web application before runtime.

This is a C<JSON> file, so both the key and value must be double-quoted.

=head1 CONFIGURATIIION OPTIONS

Configure options are separated into separate sections based on their purpose.

=head2 CORE CONFIGURATION SECTION

The C<core> configuration section contains the following configuration
directives, which pertain to the core operation of the system.

=head3 event_fetch_timer

Value: Integer, the number of seconds we'll poll the environment sensors and
update the database with the new information.

Default: C<15>

Default: C<5>

=head3 event_action_timer

Value: Integer, representing the interval (seconds) that the server will read
the current state of the system, and will enable/disable any functional GPIO
pins.

Default: C<3>

=head3 event_display_timer

Value: Integer, representing the interval (seconds) that the client UI will
automatically refresh the page (asynchronously).

Default: C<4>

=head3 time_zone

Value: A time zone as accepted by L<DateTime>'s C<new()> method's C<time_zone>
parameter.

Default: C<America/Edmonton> (MST)

=head3 testing

Value: Bool. True (C<1>) to enable testing. We will mock out all portions that
are non-Perl in order to allow for unit test runs on non-Pi boards. Set to False
(C<0>) to disable this and run in normal mode.

Default: C<0>

=head3 debug_sensor

Value: Bool. True to have the L<RPi::DHT11> hygrometer sensor print out debug
information.

Default: C<0>

=head3 log_level

Value: Integer, C<-1> through C<7>. Sets the logging level.

Default: C<-1> (off)

=head3 log_file

Value: String, a filename to use to log to. By default, if logging is enabled,
we log to C<STDOUT>.

Default: C<""> (empty string, ie. no file)

=head2 CONTROL CONFIGURATION SECTION

The C<control> configuration section specifies parameters for specific actions
within the system.

=head3 temp_limit

Value: Integer. A limit (in Farenheit), that when the temperature goes above,
the colour of the temperature in the UI will change from green to
red, and we'll enable the assoiated GPIO pin, if set.

Default: C<80>

=head3 humidity_limit

Value: Integer. A limit, that when the humidity goes below, the colour of the
humidity in the UI will change from green to red, and we'll enable the assoiated
GPIO pin, if set.

Default: C<20>

=head3 temp_aux_on_time

Value: Integer (seconds). This is the minimum length of time that the auxillary
associated with the temperature limit reached event will remain on once turned
on. Setting this to a reasonable number will prevent repeated on/off events
if the temperature fluctuates right around the limit.

Default: C<1800> (30 minutes)

=head3 humidity_aux_on_time

Value: Integer (seconds). This is the minimum length of time that the auxillary
associated with the humidity limit reached event will remain on once turned
on. Setting this to a reasonable number will prevent repeated on/off events
if the humidity fluctuates right around the limit.

Default: C<1800> (30 minutes)

=head3 temp_aux

Value: String, in the form C<auxN>, where C<N> is a value from 1-8. This
specifies that we'll associate that auxillary (an auxillary represents a GPIO
pin) to the temperature button in the UI, and the temperature limit reached
event.

Default: C<aux1>

=head3 humidity_aux

Value: String, in the form C<auxN>, where C<N> is a value from 1-8. This
specifies that we'll associate that auxillary (an auxillary represents a GPIO
pin) to the humidity button in the UI, and the humidity limit reached event.

Default: C<aux2>

=head3 light_aux

Value: String, in the form C<auxN>, where C<N> is a value from 1-8. This
specifies that we'll associate that auxillary with the light on/off event.

Default: C<aux3>

=head2 LIGHT CONFIGURATION SECTION

This section manages the light control functionality.

=head3 enable

Value: Bool. Set to C<1> (true) to enable the light management functionality,
and C<0> (false) to disable it. If this is false, we won't show the light
management table in the UI, and we will not perform any light on/off events.

Default: C<0>

=head3 toggle

Value: Bool. Set to C<1> to allow the light's on/off button to be toggled in the
UI, and C<0> to have it disabled, preventing manual overrides of the schedule.
The C<enable> directive must be set for this to have any effect.

Default: C<0>

=head3 on_at

Value: A time, in C<HH:MM> format, in 24 hour clock (eg: C<18:30>). This is the
time that the light will be enabled (turned on).

Default: C<18:00>

=head3 on_hours

Value: Integer, the number of hours the light shall remain on, before being
turned back off.

Note: C<12> hours is typical for a flowering cycle, and either C<18> or C<24>
hours are typical for a vegitative plant cycle.

Default: C<12>

=head2 AUXILLARY CONFIGURATION SECTION

An auxillary (ie. aux) is the representation of a Raspberry Pi GPIO pin. There
are eight auxillaries built into the system, all are disabled by default.

Each auxillary has its own little configuration section, and each contains the
following directives.

=head3 pin

Value: Integer. The GPIO pin number (in Broadcom BCM GPIO numbering scheme).

Disable an aux by setting this value to C<-1> (by default all of them are).

Default: C<-1>

=head3 desc

Value: String. A one-word description of what the pin is used for. This value
is operationally irrelevant.

Default:

    aux1: temp
    aux2: humidity
    aux3: light
    aux4: none
    aux5: none
    aux6: none
    aux7: none
    aux8: none

=head1 AUTHOR

Steve Bertrand, E<lt>steveb@cpan.org<gt>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016 Steve Bertrand.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See L<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/> for more information.
