=head1 PDL-Parallel-threads

Sharing PDL data between Perl threads

See the documentation for L<PDL::Parallel::threads> for more about the module.
This readme covers installation.

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

Before we go any further, be aware that this will not install unless your
perl was built with thread support. To check if your perl was compiled with
thread support, type the following at your command prompt:

 perl -V:useithreads

If the output is C<define>, you have thread support. If it is C<undef>,
you do not have thread support. If it is C<UNKNOWN>, you mis-typed
C<useithreads>. Check your spelling. :-)

=head1 INSTALLATION

You can install the currently available version of this distribution using
your favorite CPAN client. For example:

 cpan PDL::Parallel::threads
 cpanm PDL::Parallel::threads

The easiest way to install the development version is to use cpanm to
install the tarball:

 cpanm https://github.com/PDLPorters/PDL-Parallel-threads/tarball/master

You'll need to have L<App::cpanminus> in order to use C<cpanm>. If you
don't have that, or if you want to compile the code by hand, you can
download the distribution using git or by directly downloading the zip
archive at

  https://github.com/PDLPorters/PDL-Parallel-threads/zipball/master

or the tar.gz tarball at

  https://github.com/PDLPorters/PDL-Parallel-threads/tarball/master

Unpack and navigate a command-line shell to the root directory. Then issue the
following commands:

  perl Makefile.PL
  make
  make test
  make install # or sudo make install

=head1 BUGS

There are no known bugs for this distribution. If you find any, feel free
to file bug reports on the github issue tracker:

  https://github.com/PDLPorters/PDL-Parallel-threads/issues

=head1 AUTHOR

This module was written by David Mertens C<dcmertens.perl@gmail.com>.
