=pod

=begin readme text

Module::Starter::CSJEWELL version 0.100

=end readme

=for readme stop

=head1 NAME

Module::Starter::CSJEWELL - Create a module like CSJEWELL does it.

=head1 VERSION

This document describes Module::Starter::CSJEWELL version 0.200

=begin readme

=head1 INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install

This method of installation will still require a current version of Module::Build 
if it is not already installed.
    
Alternatively, to install with Module::Build, you can use the following commands:

	perl Build.PL
	./Build
	./Build test
	./Build install

=end readme

=for readme stop

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    # In your  ~/.module-starter/config file...

    author:  <Your Name>
    email:   <your@email.addr>
    plugins: Module::Starter::CSJEWELL
    template_dir: </some/absolute/path/name>

    # Then on the command-line...

    > module-starter --module=Your::New::Module

    # Or, if you're lazy, like any good Perl programmer...

    > perl -MModule::Starter::CSJEWELL=setup


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module implements a simple approach to creating modules and their support
files, based on the Module::Starter approach. Module::Starter needs to be
installed before this module can be used.

When used as a Module::Starter plugin, this module allows you to specify a
simple directory of templates which are filled in with module-specific
information, and thereafter form the basis of your new module.

=head1 INTERFACE 

Thsi module simply acts as a plugin for Module::Starter. So it uses the same
command-line interface as that module.

The template files it is to use are specified in your Module::Starter
C<config> file, by adding a C<template_dir> configuration variable that
gives the full path name of the directory in which you want to put
the templates.

The easiest way to set up this C<config> file, the associated directory, and
the necessary template files is to type:

    > perl -MModule::Starter::CSJEWELL=setup

on the command line. You will then be asked for your name, email address, and
the full path name of the directory where you want to keep the templates,
after which they will be created and installed.

Then you can create a new module by typing:

    > module-starter --module=Your::New::Module


=head2 Template format

The templates are plain files named:

        Build.PL
        Changes
        Module.pm
        t/whatever_you_like.t

The C<Module.pm> file is the template for the C<.pm> file for your module. Any
files in the C<t/> subdirectory become the templates for the testing files of
your module. All the remaining files are templates for the distribution files
of the same names.

In those files, the following placeholders are replaced by the appropriate
information specific to the file:

=over

=item <AUTHOR>

The nominated author. Taken from the C<author> setting in
your Module::Starter C<config> file.

=item <BUILD INSTRUCTIONS>

Makefile or Module::Build instructions. Computed automatically according to
the C<builder> setting in your Module::Starter C<config> file.

=item <DATE>

The current date (as returned by C<localtime>). Computed automagically

=item <DISTRO>

The name of the complete module distribution. Computed automatically from the
name of the module.

=item <EMAIL>

Where to send feedback. Taken from the C<email> setting in
your Module::Starter C<config> file.

=item <LICENSE>

The licence under which the module is released. Taken from the C<license>
setting in your Module::Starter C<config> file.

=item <MAIN MODULE>

The name of the main module of the distribution.

=item <MAIN PM FILE>

The name of the C<.pm> file for the main module.

=item <MODULE NAME>

The name of the current module being created within the distribution.

=item <RT NAME>

The name to use for bug reports to the RT system.
That is:

    Please report any bugs or feature requests to
    bug-<RT NAME>@rt.cpan.org>

=item <YEAR>

The current year. Computed automatically

=back


=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over

=item C<< Can't find directory that holds Module::Starter::CSJEWELL templates >>

You did not tell Module::Starter::CSJEWELL where your templates are stored.
You need a 'template_dir' specification. Typically this would go in
your ~/.module-starter/config file. Something like:

    template_dir: /users/you/.module-starter/Templates


=item C<< Can't access Module::Starter::CSJEWELL template directory >>

You specified a 'template_dir', but the path didn't lead to a readable
directory.


=item C<< The template: %s isn't in the template directory (%s) >>

One of the required templates was missing from the template directory 
you specified.

=item C<< The template: %s isn't readable in the template directory (%s) >>

One of the templates in the template directory you specified was not readable.

=item C<< Unknown placeholder <%s> in %s >>

One of the templates in the template directory contained a replacement item
that wasn't a known piece of information.

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENT

See the documentation for C<Module::Starter> and C<module-starter>.

=for readme continue

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

Requires the C<Module::Starter> module.

=for readme stop

=head1 INCOMPATIBILITIES

None reported.

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

No bugs have been reported.

Bugs should be reported via: 

1) The CPAN bug tracker at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Module-Starter-CSJEWELL>
if you have an account there.

2) Email to E<lt>bug-Module-Starter-CSJEWELL@rt.cpan.orgE<gt> if you do not.

=head1 AUTHOR

Curtis Jewell  C<< <CSJewell@cpan.org> >>

=for readme continue

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2009-2010, Curtis Jewell C<< <CSJewell@cpan.org> >>. 
All rights reserved.

Based on L<Module::Starter::PBP|Module::Starter::PBP>, Copyright (c) 2005, 
Damian Conway C<< <DCONWAY@cpan.org> >>. All rights reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=for readme stop

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

BECAUSE THIS SOFTWARE IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE SOFTWARE, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE SOFTWARE "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE
ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE IS WITH
YOU. SHOULD THE SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL
NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR, OR CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE SOFTWARE AS PERMITTED BY THE ABOVE LICENCE, BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE
THE SOFTWARE (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGES.

=cut
