
=head1 NAME

HTML::DOM::NodeList::Radio - A Perl class for representing lists of radio buttons in an HTML DOM tree

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.054

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use HTML::DOM;
  $doc = HTML::DOM->new;
  $doc->write('
      <form>
          <input name=r type=radio value=one>
          <input name=r type=radio value=two>
      </form>
  ');
  $doc->close;

  $radio_list = $doc->forms->[0]->find_input('r');
  # returns an HTML::DOM::NodeList::Radio object

  $radio_list->[0]; # get first button
  $radio_list->item(0); # same

  # also:
  $radio_list->value('two'); # select a radio button
  $radio-list->name; # returns 'r'

=head1 DESCRIPTION

An object of this class represents a list of radio buttons in an HTML::DOM 
tree. This class inherits from L<HTML::DOM::NodeList::> and is provided 
solely for compatibility with L<WWW::Mechanize>.

=head1 METHODS

In addition to those inherited from HTML::DOM::NodeList, this class 
implements the following methods:

=over

=item type

Returns the string 'radio'.

=item name

Returns the name of the set of radio buttons. If you pass an
argument, it will become the new name of the set (all the buttons will be
renamed), and the old name
will be returned.

=item value

Returns the value attribute of the currently selected radio button. If you 
pass a value as an
argument, the radio button with that value will be selected, and the value
of the previously selected one will be returned.

=item possible_values

Returns a list of the value attributes of all the radio buttons.

=item form_name_value

Returns a list of two items: (0) the name of the set of buttons and (1) the 
value of the currently selected button.

=back

=begin for-me

The C<other_possible_values>, C<value_name>, C<readonly>, C<disabled> and
C<check> methods do not exist (yet).

=end for-me

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<HTML::DOM>

L<HTML::DOM::NodeList>

L<HTML::DOM::Collection::Elements>

L<HTML::DOM::Element::Form>

The source of HTML/DOM/Element/Form.pm, where this is implemented.
