=head1 NAME

File::HTTP - open, read and seek into remote files and directories transparently

=head1 SYNOPSIS
    
    use File::HTTP qw(:open);
    
    # open and read a remote file (server must allow range queries)
    open(my $fh, '<', 'http://example.com/robots.txt') or die $!;
    
    while (<$fh>) {
        chomp;
        ...
    }
    
    # remote file is seekable in all directions
    seek($fh, 500, 0);
    read($fh, my $buf, 40);
    
    seek($fh, -40, 1);
    read($fh, my $buf2, 40);   

    # $/ behaves as with regular files
    local $/ = \52;
    $buf = <$fh>;
    
    # also works with https addresses if IO::Socket::SSL is available
    open(my $fh, '<', 'https://example.com/robots.txt') or die $!;
    
    # open() still works as expected with local files
    open(my $fh, '<', "local_file") or die $!;
    
    # directory (when servers allow directory listing)
    
    use File::HTTP qw(:opendir);
    
    opendir(my $dirh, 'http://example.com/files/') or die $!;
    
    while (my $file = readdir($dirh)) {
        next if $file =~ /^\.\.?$/;
        open(my $fh, '<', "http://example.com/files/$file") or die $!;
        ...
    }
    
    # open remote file, but not seekable
    # works with all web servers, and faster (real filehandler)
    
    use File::HTTP qw(open_stream);
    
    my $fh = open_stream('http://example.com/file') or die $!;
    while (<$fh>) {
        chomp;
	...
    }

    # make your module HTTP compatible when File::HTTP is installed.
    # on top of module:
    eval {use File::HTTP qw(:open)};
    
=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<File::HTTP> open, read and seek into remote files and directories transparently

=over 4

=item open [MODE] FILE

=item stat FH or FILE

Imported with the :open or :all tags.

Act exaclty as CORE::open and CORE::stat, but also work with remote HTTP files.

Falls back to CORE::open and CORE::stat when the path looks like a local file.

Returns a Tied filehanlder when opening a remote file.

Only works with Web servers that allow range queries (see CAVEATS).

You should use C<open_stream> when servers do not allow range queries.

=back

=item opendir DIR

=item readdir / rewinddir / telldir / seekdir / closedir DIRH

Imported with the :opendir or :all tags.

Act exaclty as CORE::opendir and associated CORE functions, but also work with
remote HTTP directories.

Falls back to CORE::opendir when the path looks like a local directory.

Returns a Tied filehanlder when opening a remote directory.

Only works with Web servers that allow directory listing.

=back

=item open_stream URL

open a readable but not seekable filehandle to the specified URL

=back

=item slurp_stream URL

context dependent slurping of an url

    my $content = slurp_stream($url);
    my @lines = slurp_stream($url);

=back

=item get URL [follow redirections]

slurps an url into a string, also also returning request and response
headers strings in list context.
Contrary to slrup_stream, default behavior is to ignore redirections

    my $body = get($url);
    my $body = get($url, 1); # follow redirections
    my ($request_headers, $response_headers, $body) = get($url);

If set to follow redirections, $request_headers and $response_headers
will correspond to the last emitted request.

=back

=item open_at URL

=back

=head1 EXPORTS

Nothing by default.
Functions can be imported explicitely

    use File::HTTP qw(open open_stream opendir readdir);

:open and :opendir tags are much prefered as they will ensure all needed
functions are exported

   use File::HTTP qw(:open);
   # same as:
   use File::HTTP qw(open stat);
   
   use File::HTTP qw(:opendir);
   # same as:
   use File::HTTP qw(opendir readdir rewinddir telldir seekdir closedir);

You can use the :all tag to import all functions

    use File::HTTP qw(:all);
    
You can also use the -everywhere tag to export emulation function into all namespaces
(dangerous!)

    use File::HTTP qw(-everywhere);
    
    # now all modules shall magicaly work with remote files (or not)

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

=over 4

C<open> only works with remote web server and ressources that allow range queries.

Dynamic ressources such as PHP or CGI typically do not work with range queries.

C<open_stream> does not have such limitations, but does not allow seeks.

C<opendir> only works with remote web servers and ressources that allow directory
listing, and list files as a simple <a href> links.

=back

=head1 OPTIONAL MODULES

=over 4

=item * L<IO::Socket::SSL> is required for HTTPS URLs

=item * Either L<Time::y2038> or L<Time::Local> will be used to set the modification
date in state

=back

=head1 TODO

=over 4

=item * better $! error mapping

=item * auto adaptation of seek vs read based on time

=item * buffering

=item * tests...

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Tie::Handle::HTTP>

=head1 AUTHOR

Thomas Drugeon, E<lt>tdrugeon@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2012 by Thomas Drugeon

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.14.2 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
