=head1 NAME

Revision History for WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

A list of changes to the WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord package. These
are copied from the Recently Completed Items in the file todo.pod when a
new version is released. 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Version 0.09 (12/24/06)

=over

=item *

12/23/06

=over

=item (1)

Removed Compound detection as a default preprocessing phase. (Sid)

=item (2)

Added documentation to README, with sample code for using the
WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord module. (Sid)

=item (3)

Fixed bug: config option "targetpos" was being ignored by disamb.pl. (Sid)

=item (4)

Added documentation and example code usage to the PODs and man pages
of the WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord module. (Sid)

=item (5)

Modified the order of authors in all documentation. (Sid)

=item (6)

Added data-structure/format checking of options hash passed to
WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord initilization method. (Sid)

=item (7)

Added test scripts for all recent bugs fixed. (Sid)

=back

=item *

07/18/05

=over

=item (1)

Changed the default algorithm used by TargetWord to
WordNet::SenseRelate::Algorithm::Local. (Sid)

=item (2)

Changed the default measure used by the "Local" and the "Global" algorithms
to WordNet::Similarity::jcn. (Sid)

=item (3)

Modified some of the documentation. (Sid)

=back

=back

=head2 Version 0.08 (Released 06/30/05)

=over

=item *

06/29/05

=over

=item (1)

Changed the contextpos-based sense restriction process. (Sid)

=item (2)

Made some changes to README. (Sid)

=back

=back

=over

=item *

06/26/05

=over

=item (1)

Added graphical interface senserelate.pl. (Sid)

=item (2)

Fixed bug in context selection module. (Sid)

=back

=back

=head2 Version 0.07 (Released 06/24/05)

=over

=item *

06/23/05

=over

=item (1)

Added graphical interface disamb-gui.pl. (Sid)

=item (2)

Added documentation. (Sid)

=back

=back

=over

=item *

06/19/05

=over

=item (1) 

Added output traces to all the modules (Context.pm, Compounds.pm,
Global.pm, Local.pm, Random.pm, SenseOne.pm). (Sid)

=item (2)

Fixed bug in Local.pm. (Sid)

=back

=back

=head2 Version 0.06 (Released 06/13/05)

=over

=item *

06/07/05

=over

=item (1)

Converted the SenseRelate (v0.05) package to a modular package
WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord. (Sid)

=back

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

  Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota Duluth
  tpederse at d.umn.edu

  Siddharth Patwardhan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
  sidd at cs.utah.edu

  Satanjeev Banerjee, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh
  banerjee+ at cs.cmu.edu

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None.

=head1 SEE ALSO

todo.pod

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2005 Ted Pedersen, Siddharth Patwardhan, and Satanjeev
Banerjee

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this  document  
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or  any  
later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no  
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.

Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on the web   
at L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in this    
distribution as FDL.txt. 

=cut

