=head1 NAME

config.pod - listing of configuration options, and configuration file 
format.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Description of all known configuration options, and configuration file
format.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The following is a list of options supported by the
WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord modules. This is intended to serve as a
"master list" of options so that descriptions can be copied from here and
pasted into the documentation for specific modules.

=over

=item WordNet::SenseRelate::Preprocess::Compounds

No configuration options.

=item WordNet::SenseRelate::Context::NearestWords

B<windowstop>=I<FILENAME>
    FILENAME specifies a list of stop words which should be ignored during
    context selection.

B<windowsize>=I<N>
    N is an integer that specifies the size of the window (default is 5).

B<contextpos>=<POS>
    POS specifies the part-of-speech ('n', 'v', 'a' or 'r') to which the
    context words should be restricted.

=item WordNet::SenseRelate::Algorithm::Local

B<measure>=I<MODULENAME>
    MODULENAME is the name of the semantic relatedness module that will be
    used by the local disambiguation algorithm to compute the relatedness
    of word senses.

B<measureconfig>=I<FILENAME>
    FILENAME is the name of the cofiguration file that will be used to
    initialize the semantic relatedness module.

=item WordNet::SenseRelate::Algorithm::Global

B<measure>=I<MODULENAME>
    MODULENAME is the name of the semantic relatedness module that will be
    used by the local disambiguation algorithm to compute the relatedness
    of word senses.

B<measureconfig>=I<FILENAME>
    FILENAME is the name of the cofiguration file that will be used to
    initialize the semantic relatedness module.

=item WordNet::SenseRelate::Algorithm::SenseOne

No configuration options

=item WordNet::SenseRelate::Algorithm::Random

No configuration options.

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT

A configuration file can be passed to both, disamb.pl as well as to
disamb-gui.pl in order to set up the configuration parameters for the
modules. The format of this file is specified in this section.

The configuration file must start with a header, which is the string
"WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord" on the first byte of the first line of
the file.

It consists of a number of sections. Each section contains a list of
modules for that section, along with the configuration options for the
modules.

A section starts with the string

  [SECTION:section_name]

A new section header indicates the end of the previous section. The utilies
in this package recognize four types of sections:

  [SECTION:PREPROCESS]

  [SECTION:CONTEXT]

  [SECTION:POSTPROCESS]

  [SECTION:ALGORITHM]

Any other section will be ignored by the program, without warning. Each of
the sections is used to specify the list of modules for that section. A
module is specified by [START modname] and [END] tags appearing on separate
lines.

Configuration parameters for the module appear on separate lines in between
the start and end tags as PARAMETER=VALUE pairs.

Example config file:

I<WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord>

I<[SECTION:PREPROCESS]>

I<[START WordNet::SenseRelate::Preprocess::Compounds]>

I<[END]>

I<[SECTION:CONTEXT]>

I<[START WordNet::SenseRelate::Context::NearestWords]>

I<windowsize=5>

I<windowstop=/home/sid/window-stop.txt>

I<[END]>

I<[SECTION:POSTPROCESS]>

I<[SECTION:ALGORITHM]>

I<[START WordNet::SenseRelate::Algorithm::Local]>

I<[END]>

The above config file has four sections -- PREPROCESS, CONTEXT, POSTPROCESS
and ALGORITHM. The PREPROCESS section contains a single module for compound
detection, and has no config parameters. The CONTEXT section lists one
module (NearestWords), with parameters I<windowsize> and
I<windowstop>. There are no modules listed in the POSTPROCESS section. The
ALGORITHM section lists the Local disambiguation algorithm module, also
with no config parameters.

=head1 AUTHORS

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota Duluth
 tpederse at d.umn.edu

 Siddharth Patwardhan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
 sidd at cs.utah.edu

 Satanjeev Banerjee, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh
 banerjee+ at cs.cmu.edu

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<intro.pod>, I<WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord>(3pm)

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2005 Ted Pedersen, Siddharth Patwardhan, and Satanjeev
Banerjee

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
Texts.

Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on
the web at L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in
this distribution as FDL.txt.
