=head1 NAME 

TODO LIST FOR WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord

=head1 SYNOPSIS

A list of things to do for WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord. 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

As these items are completed, move them down into Recently
Completed Items, make sure to date and initial. When we have
a version release, all of the recently completed items 
should be moved into changelog.pod. 

=head2 FOR FUTURE VERSIONS

=over

=item *

Add test scripts to the package.

=item *

Add Viterbi algorithm to the disambiguation algorithm modules.

=item *

Add information content based module to context selection modules.

=item *

For the GUI setup screens, find a way for the user to specify the
order of the preprocess and postprocess modules.

=item *

Create option to save user specified configuration options to a file.

=back

=head2 GOOD IDEAS FOR FUTURE WORK, DO WHEN POSSIBLE

=over

=item *

Combine WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord with WordNet::SenseRelate::AllWords.

=item * 

Incorporate the Senseval-2 evaluation software into the interface code.

=item *

Use a more portable toolkit (Perl/Tk, FLTK, Gtk2) for the graphical interfaces.

=item *

Improve GUIs (setup screens, main screen) -- make them more intuitive.

=back

=head2 RECENTLY COMPLETED

=over

=item *

Added a Graphical Interface for processing Senseval-2 formatted
data, to the package.

=item *

Added documentation to the package.

=item *

Created graphical interface for plain text input for WSD.

=item *

Improved the man page documentation.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth
 tpederse at d.umn.edu

 Siddharth Patwardhan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
 sidd at cs.utah.edu

 Satanjeev Banerjee, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh
 banerjee+ at cs.cmu.edu

=head1 SEE ALSO

changelog.pod

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2005 Ted Pedersen, Siddharth Patwardhan, and Satanjeev 
Banerjee. 

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this  document  
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any  
later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no  
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.

Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on the web   
at L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in this    
distribution as FDL.txt. 

=cut

