=head1 NAME

utils.pod - WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord supporting utilities

=head1 SYNOPSIS

The '/utils' subdirectory of the package contains supporting Perl
programs. As part of the standard install, these
are also installed into the system directories, and can be accessed from
any working directory if the common system directories (/usr/bin,
/usr/local/bin, etc.) are in your path.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The '/utils' directory of the package contains a few support Perl programs,
that provide command-line and graphical interfaces to the Perl modules are
provided in the '/utils' directory of the package.

=over

=item disamb.pl

Performs Word Sense Disambiguation on Senseval-2 lexical sample data. It
uses the WordNet::SenseRelate::Reader::Senseval2 module to read a Senseval2
lexical sample file, and then disambiguates each of the instances using the
WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord module.

Usage: disamb.pl [ [--config FILE] [--wnpath WNPATH] [--trace] XMLFILE | --help | --version]

B<--config>=I<FILENAME>         
    Specifies a configuration file (FILENAME) to set up the various
    configuration options.

B<--wnpath>=I<WNPATH>         
    WNPATH specifies the path of the WordNet data files. Ordinarily, this
    path is determined from the $WNHOME environment variable. But this
    option overides this behavior.

B<--trace>
    Indicates that trace information be printed.

B<--help>
    Displays this help screen.

B<--version>
    Displays version information.


Example:

To disambiguate an English lexical sample file using the default options

  disamb.pl eng-lex-samp.xml

To dismabiguate an English lexical sample file, specifying configuration
options and trace output

  disamb.pl --config config.txt --trace eng-lex-sample.xml

=item wps2sk.pl

Creates a word#pos#sense to sensekey mapping of a Senseval-2 answer file
(output by disamb.pl). In order to be able to evaluate the output of
disamb.pl using software provided by the Senseval organizers, we need to
covert the output of disamb.pl to the "SenseKey" format.

Usage: wps2sk.pl [ [ --wnpath WNPATH] [FILE...] | --help | --version ]

B<--wnpath>=I<WNPATH>
    WNPATH specifies the path of the WordNet data files. Ordinarily, this
    path is determined from the $WNHOME environment variable. But this
    option overides this behavior.

B<--quiet>
    Run in quiet mode -- does not print informational messages. But it does
    print warning or error messages if any.

B<--help>
    Displays this help screen.

B<--version>
    Displays version information.

Example:

To convert a captured output from disamb.pl

  wps2sk.pl output.txt

Typically used in a pipe with disamb.pl

  disamb.pl xmlfile.xml | wps2sk.pl --quiet

=item disamb-gui.pl

Performs Word Sense Disambiguation on Senseval-2 lexical sample data
(graphical interface to WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord). It uses the
WordNet::SenseRelate::Reader::Senseval2 module to read a Senseval2 lexical
sample file, and then allows the user to pick the instances that she wishes
to disambiguate.

Usage: disamb-gui.pl [ [--config FILE] [--wnpath WNPATH] [XMLFILE] | --help | --version]

B<--config>=I<FILENAME>
    Specifies a configuration file (FILENAME) to set up the various
    configuration options.

B<--wnpath>=I<WNPATH>
    WNPATH specifies the path of the WordNet data files. Ordinarily, this
    path is determined from the $WNHOME environment variable. But this
    option overides this behavior.

B<--help>
    Displays this help screen.

B<--version>
    Displays version information.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth
 tpederse at d.umn.edu

 Siddharth Patwardhan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
 sidd at cs.utah.edu

 Satanjeev Banerjee, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh
 banerjee+ at cs.cmu.edu

=head1 KNOWN BUGS

None.

=head1 ALSO SEE

L<intro.pod>, I<WordNet::SenseRelate::TargetWord>(3pm)

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2005 Ted Pedersen, Siddharth Patwardhan, and Satanjeev
Banerjee

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
Texts.

Note: a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License is available on
the web at L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html> and is included in
this distribution as FDL.txt.

=cut
