=head1 NAME

Doit::Pip - commands for dealing with pip packages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Doit;
    my $doit = Doit->init;
    $doit->add_component('pip');

    $doit->pip_install_packages(qw(zk-shell));

    my @missing_packages = $doit->pip_missing_packages(qw(zk-shell));

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Doit::Pip> is a L<Doit> component providing commands for dealing
with pip packages. It has to be added to a script using L<Doit's
add_component|Doit/add_component>:

    $doit->add_component('pip');

Only support for pip3 is available.

=head2 DOIT COMMANDS

The following commands are added to the Doit runner object:

=head3 pip_install_packages

    my @installed_packages = $doit->pip_install_packages(@packages);

Make sure that the listed pip packages are installed (using
L<pip3(1)>). Return a list of the packages which were actually
installed during the execution of this command (or the number of
packages in scalar context).

=head3 pip_missing_packages

    my @missing_packages = $doit->pip_missing_packages(@packages);

Return the packages out of I<@packages> which are not yet installed.
This is an "informational" command and runs even in dry-run mode.

=head3 can_pip

    my $available = $doit->can_pip;

Return a boolean value whether pip operation is possible (i.e. C<pip3>
is installed).

Note that this component does not make sure that C<pip3> is installed.
You have to assure this by installing the package yourself, i.e.

    $doit->deb_install_packages(qw(python3-pip));

or

    $doit->rpm_install_packages(qw(python3-pip));

=head1 AUTHOR

Slaven Rezic <srezic@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2020 Slaven Rezic. All rights reserved.
This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Doit>, L<pip3(1)>.

=cut
