=pod

=head1 NAME

Games::Dice::Roll20 - Simulate dice rolls with Roll20's syntax

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $dice = Games::Dice::Roll20->new();
  say $dice->roll('3d20+5');
  say $dice->roll('d6*10+d6');
  say $dice->roll('10d6rk4>5');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Games::Dice::Roll20 simulates dice rolls by using a syntax familiar to players
of role playing games. In contrast to many similar projects it does not only
support simple constructs like I<2d6+4> but aims to simulate complex dice
mechanics like exploding, re-rolling and keeping and dropping high or low dice.
It should be a almost complete implementation of the dice specification by
L<Roll20|https://wiki.roll20.net/Dice_Reference>. The supported features and
deviations from this specifications are listed in L<our own
specification|https://github.com/mdom/Games-Dice-Roll20/blob/master/lib/Games/Dice/Roll20/Spec.pod>.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 roll

  my $result = $dice->roll('3d20+5');

Parse the provided dice expression and returns the results as
integer. Returns undef if the expression can't be parsed.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2015 Mario Domgoergen C<< <mario@domgoergen.com> >>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
