=for Pod::Coverage empty

=head1 NAME

Chess::Opening::ECO::Entry - ECO information for a position.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	$book = Chess::Opening::Book::ECO->new;
	$entry = $book->lookupFEN($fen) or die "position not found";

	$eco = $entry->eco;
	$variation = $entry->variation;
	$total = $entry->weights;
	$total = $entry->counts;
	$moves = $entry->moves;

	$entry->addMove(move => 'g1f3', count => 2304);
    
=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Chess::Opening::ECO::Entry> is a specialization of
L<Chess::Opening::Book::Entry> for the ECO classification.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item B<new FILENAME>

The constructor takes one single argument, the B<FILENAME> of the opening
book on disk.  An exception is thrown if the file cannot be opened.

=item B<lookupFEN FEN>

Returns a L<Chess::Opening::Book::Entry> for B<FEN> or false.
See L<Chess::Opening::Book/lookupFEN> for more information

=item B<moves>

Returns a reference to a hash of L<Chess::Opening::Book::Move> objects for
this position.  The keys are the moves in coordinate notation
(see L<Chess::Opening/Moves>) and the values are the associated objects.

=item B<eco>

The ECO code for this position.

=item B<variation>

The name of the opening, for example "Spanish", "Reti" and so on.

=item B<xeco>

The extended ECO code for this position.  The extended ECO code is the normal
echo code possibly followed by a lowercase letter, possibly followed by a
decimal number.  See L<http://scidvspc.sourceforge.net/doc/ECO.htm> for a
description of these extensions.

=item B<weights>

Since each move in the ECO database has a "weight" of 1, this just returns
the number of moves.

=item B<counts>

An alias B<weights()>, see above.

=item B<addMove move =E<gt> MOVE, weight =E<gt> WEIGHT>

Adds a B<MOVE> in coordinate notation with weight B<WEIGHT>.  You can use
the named argument B<count> as an alias for B<weight>.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2019 Guido Flohr <guido.flohr@cantanea.com>,
all rights reserved.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Chess::Opening::Book>, L<Chess::Opening::Book::Entry>,
L<Chess::Opening::Book::Move>, perl(1)
