=head1 NAME

Repository::Simple::Type - Summary of the typing system

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The typing system provides a rich set of descriptions for the nature of nodes on several different levels. Since there are three levels to this system, I will try to give an overview here to hopefully head off any confusion.

There are three levels in the type system. From highest to lowest, the levels are:

=over

=item 1.

B<Node Type.> Node types are represented by L<Repository::Simple::Type::Node>. These define the overall organization of nodes in the system. A node is a collection of child nodes and properties. A node type determines what structures are expected or permissible for nodes.

=item 2.

B<Property Type.> Property types are represented by L<Repository::Simple::Type::Property>. These define the overall nature of each property. A property is a key/value pair. A property type determines what type is expected for a given property value and if that property can be added, changed, or removed.

=item 3.

B<Value Type.> Value types are represented by L<Repository::Simple::Type::Value>. These define the acceptable format and storage of values.

=back

See the documentation associated with each of the above for details.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Repository::Simple::Type::Node>, L<Repository::Simple::Type::Property>, L<Repository::Simple::Type::Value>

=head1 AUTHOR

Andrew Sterling Hanenkamp, E<lt>hanenkamp@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2006 Andrew Sterling Hanenkamp E<lt>hanenkamp@cpan.orgE<gt>.  All 
Rights Reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself. See L<perlartistic>.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=cut

1
