=pod

=head1 Name

Test.Harness.Browser - Run TAP standard JavaScript test scripts with statistics in a Browser

=head1 Synopsis

  <html>
  <head>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="JSAN.js"></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <script type="text/javascript">
      new JSAN("../lib").use("Test.Harness.Browser");
      new Test.Harness.Browser('JSAN.js').runTests(
          'async.js',
          'bad_plan.html',
          'buffer.js',
          'builder.html'
      );
    </script>
  </body>
  </html>

or non-JSAN approach (JavaScript test files will not work without JSAN)

  <html>
  <head>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="Test/Harness.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="Test/Harness/Browser.js"></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <script type="text/javascript">
      Test.Harness.Browser.runTests(
          'async.html',
          'bad_plan.html',
          'buffer.html',
          'builder.html'
      );
    </script>
  </body>
  </html>

=head1 Description

B<STOP!> If all you want to do is write a test script, consider using
Test.Simple. Test.Harness is the module that reads the output from
Test.Simple, Test.More and other modules based on Test.Builder. You don't need
to know about Test.Harness to use those modules.

Test.Harness.Browser runs JavaScript tests in a browser and expects to get the
results from the C<TestResults> attribute of the Test.Builder object
constructed by each test script. These results conform to a format called TAP,
the Test Anything Protocol. It is defined in
L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Test-Harness/lib/Test/Harness/TAP.pod>. See
L<Test.Harness> for details on the output.

=head2 Class Methods

  Test.Harness.Browser.runTests('testone.js', 'testtwo.html');

Constructs a new Test.Harness.Browser object and calls its C<runTests()>
instance method, passing all arguments along.

=head2 Constructors

  var harness = new Test.Harness.Browser('script.js', 'another.js');

Constructs a new Test.Harness.Browser object. If your tests will be pure JavaScript
files (that is, ending in F<.js>, pass in a list of dependency scripts to be
loaded before each script. A particularly handy one to load is F<JSAN.js>
(L<http://www.openjsan.org/go?l=JSAN>). This library will allow you to
dymamically load whatever other libraries you need from each test script, like
so:

  var jsan = new JSAN('../lib');
  jsan.use('Test.More');
  jsan.use('HTTP.Query');
  plan({tests: 1});
  var q = new HTTP.Query;
  isaOK(q, HTTP.Query);

In fact, this is the approach that Test.Simple's own tests take. Check 'em
out!

=head2 Instance Methods

=over 4

=item B<runTests>

  harness.runTests('testone.js', 'testtwo.html');

This method runs all the given test files and divines whether they passed or
failed based on the contents of the C<TestResults> attribute of their global
C<Test.Builder.Test> object. It prints out each individual test that failed
along with a summary report and a how long it all took. When all tests have
been run, a diagnostic message will be output. See L<Test.Harness> for details
on the output.

For F<.js> files, be sure to pass to the Test.Harness.Browser constructor a
list of required scripts to be loaded before the test is loaded and executed.

=back

=head2 GET Options

An HTML file that uses Test.Harness.Browser will automatically process the
C<GET> its arguments, and these can be used to affect the behavior of the
harness.

=over

=item B<verbose>

  index.html?verbose=1

Set the C<verbose> option to a true value to have all of the output of all of
the tests in the harness output to the browser window. By default, only
failing tests display their output.

=item B<file>

  index.html?file=foo.html;file=bar.html

Set the C<file> option to override the list of files passed to runTest().
This option may be specified multiple times, and each file specified will be
passed to runTest().

=back

=head1 Bugs

Safari (and maybe KHTML?) has a number of bugs that affect how
Test.Harness.Browser works. The most obvious is that it cannot run tests on a
local disk. The harness I<only> works in Safari if the tests are served by a
Web server. The WebKit team is aware of the issue; expect it to be fixed in a
future version.

Other Safari bugs I reported while writing this module:

=over

=item iFrame Doesn't seem to Respect a local "file://" src

L<http://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=3593>

=item Function.toString() Doesn't Stringify Constructors as Attributes

Some tests are skipped in F<tests/create.html>, F<tests/harness.html>,
and F<tests/more.html> to work around this bug.

L<http://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=3537>

=item WebKit JavaScript Does not Properly Support Circular References

One test is skipped in F<tests/circular_data.html> to work around this bug.

L<http://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=3539>

=item iFrames Appear to be Cached

L<http://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=3580>

=item iFrames set to display:none are Missing from frames array

So the iframe used to run tests isn't hidden in Safari. Instead, it is set to
"height: 0; widht: 0".

L<http://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=3581>

=item Add Support for the watch() method of Object

This would just be nice to have, so that we wouldn't have to set timeouts to
check for test completion.

L<http://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=3659>

=back

=head1 See Also

L<Test.Harness>, the base class for this class.

L<Test.Simple> and L<Test.More>, modules with which to write tests.

=head1 Authors

David Wheeler <david@kineticode.com>.

=head1 Copyright

Copyright 2005 by David Wheeler <david@kineticode.com>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Perl Artistic License or the GNU GPL.

See L<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html> and
L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html>.

=cut
