=pod

=head1 Name

Test.Harness.Director - Run TAP standard JavaScript test scripts with statistics in Director

=head1 Synopsis

  Test.Harness.Director.runTests(
      'async_html',
      'bad_plan_html',
      'buffer_html',
      'builder_html'
  );

=head1 Description

B<STOP!> If all you want to do is write a test script, consider using
Test.Simple. Test.Harness is the module that reads the output from
Test.Simple, Test.More and other modules based on Test.Builder. You don't need
to know about Test.Harness to use those modules.

Test.Harness.Director runs JavaScript tests in Director and expects to get the
results from the C<TestResults> attribute of the Test.Builder object
constructed by each test script. These results conform to a format called TAP,
the Test Anything Protocol. It is defined in
L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Test-Harness/lib/Test/Harness/TAP.pod>. See
L<Test.Harness> for details on the output.

=head2 Class Methods

  Test.Harness.Director.runTests('javascript_funtion_1', 'javascript_funtion_2');

Constructs a new Test.Harness.Director object and calls its C<runTests()>
instance method, passing all arguments along.

=head2 Constructors

  var harness = new Test.Harness.Director();

Constructs a new Test.Harness.Director object.

=head2 Instance Methods

=over 4

=item B<runTests>

  harness.runTests('javascript_funtion_1', 'javascript_funtion_2');

This method runs all the given test functions and divines whether they passed
or failed based on the contents of the C<TestRusults> attribute of their
global C<Test.Builder.Test> object. It prints out each individual test that
failed along with a summary report and a how long it all took. When all tests
have been run, a diagnostic message will be output. See L<Test.Harness> for
details on the output.

=head1 See Also

To actually use this module, there is a a fair amount of Director scaffolding
required. See L<http://www.gmccreight.com/TestSimple/> for additional
downloads and documentation.

L<Test.Harness>, the base class for this class.

L<Test.Simple> and L<Test.More>, modules with which to write tests.

=head1 Authors

Gordon McCreight <gordon@mccrieght.com> and David Wheeler
<david@kineticode.com>.

=head1 Copyright

Copyright 2005 by David Wheeler <david@kineticode.com>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the Perl Artistic License or the GNU GPL.

See L<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html> and
L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html>.

=cut
