=head1 NAME

brewbuild.conf - Optional configuration file for the C<Test::BrewBuild>
build system.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

By default, an example C<brewbuild.conf-dist> configuration file is copied into
C<~/brewbuild> directory upon installation.

To use a configuration file, copy the C<brewbuild.conf-dist> file to
C<brewbuild.conf> within the same directory, and edit it accordingly.

Command line arguments will override whatever configuration you have in the
config file.

=head1 SECTIONS

=head2 [brewbuild]

Configuration for the core
L<brewbuild|https://metacpan.org/pod/distribution/Test-BrewBuild/bin/brewbuild>
script.

=head3 timeout

This is the timeout to use for the C<instance_install()> method. It defaults to
600 seconds. If an install takes longer than the time set in C<timeout>, it'll
roll out the changes and log an error, then proceed.

=head3 remove

Set to 1 to remove all instances of perl on every run. Defaults to 0.

=head3 plugin

Overrides the default plugin L<Test::BrewBuild::Plugin::DefaultExec> that is
the actual command set that performs the testing routines.

=head3 save

Default off, set to 1 to enable saving of all PASS logs along with the FAIL
ones.

=head3 debug

Default is 0. Range is 0-7.

=head3 legacy

Default off. Perls 5.8.x and lower will be installed if you set this to 1.

=head3 nocache

Default is off (0). Send in a true value to disable the caching of
Perl/Berrybrew available/list information.

=head3 revdep

Default is off (0). Send in a true value to run reverse dependency tests on the
current distribution being tested.

=head2 [dispatch]

Configuration for the dispatcher,
L<bbdispatch|https://metacpan.org/pod/distribution/Test-BrewBuild/bin/bbdispatch>.

=head3 testers

A comma delimited list of test servers to dispatch to. Example:

    testers = 127.0.0.1, 10.5.5.5:9999

=head3 repo

The repo to default to. If not specified here or at the command-line, we'll
default to looking for a repository in your current working directory. Example:

    repo = https://github.com/stevieb9/p5-test-brewbuild

=head3 cmd

The C<brewbuild> command string you want to use as default. Example:

    cmd = brewbuild -r -R -d 7

=head3 forks

Default is 4. Send in a positive integer to run that many parallel dispatch
processes.

=head3 auto_sleep

When using an auto dispatch run (eg: C<bbdispatch --auto>), the integer value of
this directive specifies how many seconds to sleep in between each build run
sent to the testers.

=head3 rpi

Default is off (0). Set to a true value to enable RPi-specific testing.
(ie. You're running on a Pi and have an LCD connected for test statistics).

=head3 rpi_lcd_rows

Defaults to 4. Only other valid number of rows is 2.

=head3 rpi_lcd_cols

Defaults to 20. Only other valid number of columns is 16.

=head3 debug

Defaults to off (0). Set to any number 0-7 to enable that level of debugging
output.

=head2 [tester]

Configuration for the tester
L<bbtester|https://metacpan.org/pod/distribution/Test-BrewBuild/bin/bbtester>
test runner daemon.

=head3 ip

Specify the IP address you want your tester to listen on. Example:

    ip = 127.0.0.1

=head3 port

Which port should your tester listen on? Example:

    port = 9999

=head3 logfile

Defaults to undefined. Send in the name of a writable file location and we'll
output our debug data to this file.

=head3 auto

Defaults to undefined. Send in a true value to have the Tester run in
automated Continuous Integration mode.

=head3 csum

Defaults to undefined. This is used in conjunction with C<auto>.

If set to a true value, we'll run in CI mode even if no new commits have been
made to the repository.

=head3 debug

Defaults to off (0). Set to 0-7 to enable that level of debug output.
