=head1 NAME

Test::BrewBuild::Tutorial - Basic overview of using the client/server aspects
of the Test::BrewBuild build system

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document gives a basic overview of setting up remote test servers,
and how to dispatch build requests to them.

=head1 BEFORE YOU BEGIN

At this time, there is no security around the network portions of this suite.
To mitigate, you can use IP filters, SSH tunnels etc. We do however do a
reasonably good job of ensuring the commands executed on the testers have been
verified.

Read through the
L<brewbuild|https://metacpan.org/pod/distribution/Test-BrewBuild/bin/brewbuild> 
documentation so you know how the actual tester works. Documentation for the
scripts used in this tutorial can be found in L<SEE ALSO>.

You'll need Git on both the dispatcher and all testers, your module accessible
via a Git repository, and the dispatch and all tester servers configured, see
L</SERVER CONFIGURATION>.

=head1 SERVER CONFIGURATION

Recommended initial platform configuration guide:
L<Test Platform Configuration|https://metacpan.org/pod/distribution/Test-BrewBuild/bin/brewbuild#TEST-PLATFORM-CONFIGURATION>.

This applies to all C<Test::BrewBuild> systems, whether they'll be stand-alone,
a dispatcher or a tester.

=head1 SCENARIO

You've got a Linux box at C<10.1.1.1> with all IP addresses and ports bound on
the server available for listening on.

You've also got a Windows server on C<172.16.1.1>, but our
default port C<TCP 7800> is not available, which can only listen on that
specific IP address.

You will be dispatching from a FreeBSD server, so you also want to run a tester
on the C<localhost>.

On the dispatcher, we'll be located within a Git repository directory, so we'll
let the system take care of the repo management so we don't have to continuously
specify it.

See L</SEE ALSO> for more elaborate uses, command-line options of each script,
and details of the optional configuration file.

=head1 STEP 1: CONFIGURE TESTERS

=head2 Linux (10.1.1.1)

Since we can listen on all IPs and the default port is available for use, this
simple command will start the tester, and put it into the background:

    bbtester start

=head2 Windows (172.16.1.1)

On this server, we're not permitted to listen on all IP addresses, and since
port C<7800> is unavailable, we have to specify an alternate.

    bbtester start -i 172.16.1.1 -p 9999

=head2 localhost

Since this tester is the dispatching server, we don't want it listening on
public-facing IP addresses, so we'll specify just the local loopback:

    bbtester start -i 127.0.0.1

=head1 STEP 2: CONFIGURE DISPATCHER

=head2 Command line basic run

C<brewbuild> itself can send in test run to remotes in an extremely basic way,
but we're going to focus on C<bbdispatch> here which allows for far more complex
cases.

By default, we dispatch the most basic build, by sending C<brewbuild> as the
test command. The following will dispatch a build to all three testers we
configured above, and then wait for them to return the results.

    bbdispatch -t 127.0.0.1 -t 172.16.1.1:9999 -t 10.1.1.1

To specify a different command string:

    bbdispatch -c "brewbuild -r -R -d 7" -t 127.0.0.1 -t 172.16.1.1:9999 -t 10.1.1.1

To specify a different repository:

    bbdispatch -r https://github.com/user/repo -t 127.0.0.1 -t 172.16.1.1:9999 -t 10.1.1.1

Note that the repository flag (C<-r>) will prepend C<https://github.com/> by
default if you only specify C<user/repo>.

Example output of a basic run where I'm in a git repository directory:

    bbdispatch -t localhost -t 192.168.252.90 -t 192.168.252.96 -t 192.168.252.95

    192.168.252.95 - x86_64-linux

    5.22.1 :: PASS

    192.168.252.90 - MSWin32-x64-multi-thread

    5.18.4 :: PASS
    5.22.1 :: PASS

    localhost - MSWin32-x64-multi-thread

    5.22.1 :: FAIL

    192.168.252.96 - amd64-freebsd

    5.22.1 :: PASS
    5.23.7 :: PASS
    5.8.9 :: FAIL
    5.10.1 :: FAIL
    5.18.4 :: FAIL

All FAIL log files are stored locally when dispatching to identify the issues:

    192.168.252.96_5.10.1-FAIL.bblog
    192.168.252.96_5.18.4-FAIL.bblog
    192.168.252.96_5.8.9-FAIL.bblog
    localhost_5.22.1-FAIL.bblog


=head2 Configuration file run

In your configuration file, you can set up all of your testers, along with the
preferred command string (and repository if need be):

    [dispatch]
    cmd = brewbuild -R -d 7
    testers = 127.0.0.1, 172.16.1.1:9999, 10.1.1.1

Then your dispatch run can be initiated simply by:

    bbdispatch

=head1 SETTING A PLUGIN

There are a handful of plugins available for L<Test::BrewBuild>. The default is
L<Test::BrewBuild::Plugin::DefaultExec>, which performs the most basic of runs.

L<Test::BrewBuild::Plugin::Author> will perform the same tests as the default
plugin, but will additionally attempt to set C<RELEASE_TESTING=1> while logging
on failure, and will also proceed to attempt an install of the basic
distributions that perform the author tests (eg: L<Pod::Coverage>,
L<Test::Pod::Coverage> and L<Test::Manifest>).

Search the CPAN for other C<Test::BrewBuild::Plugin> plugins.

To use a plugin, use the C<--plugin> or C<-p> argument to C<brewbuild>.

    brewbuild --plugin Test::BrewBuild::Plugin::Author

Some plugins allow you to send in arguments to it. The way this works is that
the args are sent in within a list, and on each iteration of a test run, the
next arg in the list is passed in. Each run gets exactly one argument from the
list:

    brewbuild -p Test::BrewBuild::Plugin::TestAgainst -a Module:A -a Module::B

=head1 TROUBLESHOOTING

If your dispatcher doesn't seem to be doing the right thing, you can enable
debug logging, which will print directly to C<STDOUT>:

    bbdispatch [...] -d 7

If your testers don't seem to be behaving properly, first, log into the remote
server and stop the currently running tester:

    bbtester stop

Restarting the tester in daemon mode with a debug level will include its logging
in the return to the dispatcher:

    bbtester start -d 7

You can also run the tester in the foreground, and get its logging displayed to
C<STDOUT> live-time:

    bbtester --fg -d 7 --stdout

If you want to get the debugging information from the actual C<brewbuild>
process included in the tester debug results, call C<brewbuild> from the
dispatcher with debug flags enabled. These debug results will be either included
in the tester's return, or printed to its C<STDOUT>, depending on how you're
debugging the tester:

    bbdispatch [...] -c "brewbuild -d 7"

Using the various APIs, you can enclose all debug output and return values into
one scalar variable, and either dump it to a file or examine it all in one
location:

    use Capture::Tiny qw(capture_stdout);
    use Test::BrewBuild::Dispatch;
    use Test::BrewBuild::Tester;

    my $return;

    my $stdout = capture_stdout {
        my $d = Test::BrewBuild::Dispatch->new(debug => 7);
        my $t = Test::BrewBuild::Tester->new(debug => 7);

        $t->start;

        $return = $d->dispatch(
            cmd     => 'brewbuild -i 5.10.1_32 -d 7',
            repo    => 'https://stevieb9@github.com/stevieb9/mock-sub',
            testers => [ qw(10.1.1.1) ],
        );

        $t->stop;
    };

    $return .= $stdout;

    print $return;

=head1 QUICK START

Quick start basic example, with one remote tester.

Tester 10.1.1.1:

    bbtester start

brewbuild:

    brewbuild -D -t 10.1.1.1

Dispatcher:

    bbdispatch -t 10.1.1.1

Auto run a specific number of dispatch runs to the testers. You *must* specify
the repository URL on the command line when using auto mode:

    bbtester start -a

    bbdispatch -t 10.1.1.1 -a -r ...    # run forever

    bbdispatch -t 10.1.1.1 -a 10 -r ... # run 10 cycles

=head1 AUTO MODE

Here's an example of a full-blown automated run. It will automatically check
the commit checksums on the local copy of a repository, and the remote. If they
differ, we'll run the test suite.

You'll want to run the commands likely from somewhere like the C<@reboot>
C<crontab> entry of the user you want running the tests.

=head2 Basic implementation

    bbtester start -a
    bbdispatch -t localhost -r https://github.com/user/repo -a

=head2 Skip checksum check

You can run the test suite on every iteration even if the repository checksums
are the same (ie. no commits have been pushed to remote).

    bbtester start -a -c
    bbdispatch -t localhost -r https://github.com/user/repo -a

=head2 Integrate with a Raspberry Pi

We provide the ability to run tests on a Raspberry Pi, and optionally display
the result information to an LCD screen including date/time, pass/fail status,
the last commit tested, and the number of runs that have completed. First, you
need to set up an environment variable set to the pins the LCD is connected to
(RS, E, D0, D1, D2, D3):

    BB_RPI_LCD=5,6,4,17,27,22

The above is for 2 row, 16 column LCD units. To use the larger 4 row by 20
column LCD, append the number of rows and columns to the end of the environment
variable:

    BB_RPI_LCD=5,6,4,17,27,22,4,20

Then use the special C<--rpi> flag in the dispatch command:

    bbtester start -a
    bbdispatch -t localhost -r https://github.com/user/repo -a --rpi

=head1 SEE ALSO

Details on the L<configuration file|https://metacpan.org/pod/distribution/Test-BrewBuild/lib/Test/BrewBuild/brewbuild.conf.pod>.

Dispatch script usage information:
L<bbdispatch|https://metacpan.org/pod/distribution/Test-BrewBuild/bin/bbdispatch>.

Tester script usage information:
L<bbtester|https://metacpan.org/pod/distribution/Test-BrewBuild/bin/bbtester>.

BrewBuild script usage information:
L<brewbuild|https://metacpan.org/pod/distribution/Test-BrewBuild/bin/brewbuild>.
