\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename readme.info
@settitle Perl Unix::Processors Installation
@c %**end of header

@c DESCRIPTION: TexInfo: DOCUMENT source run through texinfo to produce README file
@c Use 'make README' to produce the output file
@c Before release, run C-u C-c C-u C-a (texinfo-all-menus-update)

@node Top, Copyright, (dir), (dir)
@chapter Unix::Processors

This is the Unix::Processors Perl Package.

@menu
* Copyright::
* Description::
* Obtaining Distribution::
* Supported Systems::
* Installation::
@end menu

@node Copyright, Description, Top, Top
@section Copyright

This package is Copyright 1999-2017 by Wilson Snyder @email{wsnyder@@wsnyder.org}.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of either the GNU Lesser General Public License
Version 3 or the Perl Artistic License Version 2.0.

This code is provided with no warranty of any kind, and is used entirely at
your own risk.

@node Description, Obtaining Distribution, Copyright, Top
@section Description

This package provides access to per-processor information from Perl.

@example
  my $procs = new Unix::Processors;
  print $procs->max_online, " CPUs at ", $procs->max_clock, " MHz\n";
  if ($procs->max_online != $procs->max_physical) @{
      print "Hyperthreading between ",$procs->max_physical," physical CPUs.\n";
  @}
  (my $FORMAT =   "%2s  %-8s     %4s    \n") =~ s/\s\s+/ /g;
  printf($FORMAT, "#", "STATE", "CLOCK",  "TYPE", );
  foreach my $proc (@@@{$procs->processors@}) @{
      printf ($FORMAT, $proc->id, $proc->state, $proc->clock, $proc->type);
  @}
@end example

See @samp{man Unix::Processors} after installation.

@node Obtaining Distribution, Supported Systems, Description, Top
@section Obtaining Distribution

The latest version is available at
@uref{http://www.perl.org/CPAN/}

Download the latest package from that site, and decompress.
@samp{gunzip Unix-Processors_version.tar.gz ; tar xvf Unix-Processors_version.tar}

@node Supported Systems, Installation, Obtaining Distribution, Top
@section Supported Systems

This version of Unix::Processors has been built and tested on:

@itemize @bullet
@item i386-linux
@item aix-4.3.3
@item aix-5.1.0 (32 and 64 bit)
@item alpha-osf
@item freebsd (clock methods not supported before freebsd 5.4)
@item hpux-11.00
@item hpux-11.11
@item sgi-irix
@item sparc-sun-solaris2.6
@item sparc-sun-solaris2.8
@end itemize

Porting will definately be necessary for other operating systems.

@node Installation,  , Supported Systems, Top
@section Installation

@enumerate
@item
@code{cd} to the directory containing this README notice.

@item
Type @samp{perl Makefile.PL} to configure Unix::Processors for your system.

@item
Type @samp{make} to compile Unix::Processors.

@item
Type @samp{make install} to install the programs and any data files and
documentation.

@end enumerate



