# $Id: ONTO-PERL.pod 2015-02-16 16:21:45Z erick.antezana $
#
# see also - http://search.cpan.org/~easr/ONTO-PERL/
#
# This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
# it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.8.7 or,
# at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=head1 NAME

ONTO-PERL           - PERL modules for OBO-formatted ontologies

=head1 DESCRIPTION

  ONTO-PERL a collection of PERL modules for dealing with OBO-formatted 
  ontologies (like the Gene Ontology). This code distribution gathers 
  object-oriented modules (to handle ontology elements such as a Term, 
  a Relationship, a Synonym, and so forth), scripts (for typical tasks 
  such as format conversions: obo2owl, owl2obo; besides, there are also
  many examples that can be easily adapted for specific applications), and 
  a comprehensive set of test files for ensuring its implementation quality.

Citing ONTO-PERL:

  If you use ONTO-PERL in your work, you are kindly requested to cite:
 
    ONTO-PERL: An API supporting the development and analysis of bio-ontologies
    E. Antezana; M. Egana; B. De Baets; M. Kuiper; V. Mironov
    Bioinformatics 2008; doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btn042

See also:

  1. perldoc ONTO-PERL.pod
  
  2. ONTO-Toolkit: A set of Galaxy tools to deal with OBO-formatted ontologies,
     Antezana E, Venkatesan A, Mungall C, Mironov V, Kuiper M.
     BMC Bioinformatics 2010, 11(Suppl 12):S8 doi:10.1186/1471-2105-11-S12-S8

Files in ONTO-PERL:

  README                        Readme file

  INSTALL                       How to install ONTO-PERL (requirements)

  LICENSE                       ONTO-PERL's license

  ONTO-PERL-x.y.tar.gz          ONTO-PERL API: version x.y (gzip file)

  Changes                       Description about the changes in ONTO-PERL

Remark:

  ONTO-PERL is provided "as-is". The current version is stable; 
  nonetheless, improvements are expected as well as feedback is 
  very welcome. Please visit constantly this repository for checking 
  up-to-date versions of this distribution.

Contact:

  Any comments, suggestions can be addressed to: 

   Erick Antezana
   <erick.antezana -@- gmail.com>

=head1 AUTHOR

Erick Antezana, E<lt>erick.antezana -@- gmail.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2006-2015 by Erick Antezana. All rights reserved.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.8.7 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut

package ONTO-PERL;
1;