package Markdent::Manual;

=pod

=head1 NAME

Markdent::Manual - Using and Extending Markdent

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Markdent is an event-driven parser toolkit for Markdown. That's a mouthful, so
let's go through that piece by piece, starting at the end.

Markdown is a wiki-esque plain text markup format that is easy to read and
easy to write. It draws inspiration from how people have communicated in plain
text email for a long time. For example, some text like "*really*" is parsed
as emphasis around the word "really".

Existing Markdown tools in Perl (and in most other languages) are only able to
convert Markdown directly to HTML. They are not really parsers, they're
combined parser/converters. This is problematic if you want to do something
with the document besides turn it into HTML. Maybe you'd like to parse it and
cache an intermediate representation. Maybe you want to turn into markup-free
text. Maybe you want to pull out just the links.

With Markdent, you can do any and all of those things (and you can turn
Markdown into HTML too).

An event-driven parser like Markdown generates a I<sequence of events> as the
result of parsing a document. If you're familiar with the SAX API, that is
another event-driven parser API.

With Markdent, these events can be things like "StartEmphasis", "StartLink",
"EndCode", "Text", etc.

The parser feeds these events into a handler, and the handler can decide what
to do with them. By decoupling parsing from other tasks, it gives you great
power in dealing with the parse results.

When I call Markdent a parser I<toolkit>, that means it is designed to be part
of a larger ecosystem. You can write your handlers, and you can even write
your own parser dialects as roles.

=head1 HANDLERS

A handler object receives events with the parser and does something with
them. All handlers implement the L<Markdent::Role::Handler> role, which simply
requires a single method, C<< $handler->handle_event($event) >>.

If you're writing your own handler, you may find it convenient to consume the
L<Markdent::Role::EventsAsMethods> role. This provides a C<handle_event()>
implementation that calls a different method for each type of event.

This is used by the L<Markdent::Handler::HTMLStream::Document> and
L<Markdent::Handler::HTMLStream::Fragment> handlers, for example. Since it
generates a different tag for each event, it makes sense to have one method
per event which knows what tag to generate.

On the other hand, the L<CaptureEvents
handler|Markdent::Handler::CaptureEvents> doesn't care what type of event it
receives, it just stores it for later use. It only needs to implement a
C<handle_event()> method to do its job.

=head1 WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH MARKDENT?

Markdent has a lot of parts, but you don't need to learn about all of them.

Here are some pointers for common tasks ...

=head2 Converting Markdown to HTML

Take a look at the L<Markdent::Handler::HTMLStream::Document>. This turns the
event stream into a stream of HTML output. You can send the output to any
filehandle. Open a filehandle to a scalar to capture the output in memory.

You can use L<Markdent::Handler::HTMLStream::Fragment> if you don't want to
generate a complete HTML document.

=head2 Cache Parse Results

Use the L<Markdent::Handler::CaptureEvents> handler to capture events for
caching. You can then store the generated L<Markdent::CapturedEvents> object
using L<Storable>.

=head2 Do Both

Use the L<Markdent::Handler::Multiplexer> handler to do more than one thing at
a time with the event stream.

=head2 Write Your Own Handler

Writing a handler is pretty easy. Take a look at any of the existing handler
classes for ideas.

=head1 PARSER

The core of the Markdent parser system is the L<Markdent::Parser> module. This
module doesn't actually do any parsing itself. Instead, it hooks together a
block parser and a span parser, and lets the block parser start the real
parsing process.

Markdent divides parsing into blocks and spans. The block parser looks for
block-level constructs like paragraphs, lists, blockquotes, etc. For most of
these constructs, it passes the contents of the block on to the span
parser. The span parser looks for things like strong and emphasis markup,
links, HTML entities, and so on.

Separating these two makes creating a Markdown dialect a bit easier, as you
may find yourself just needing to alter the behavior of just the block I<or>
the span parser.

For example, the L<Theory dialect|Markdent::Dialect::Theory> shipped with this
distribution is mostly implemented as a role applied to the L<Standard
dialect's|Markdent::Dialect::Standard> block parser.

See the Theory dialect for an example of how to modify the core Markdown
dialect.

=head1 WHAT DOES THE NAME MEAN?

It's a combination of "Markdown" and "event".

=cut
