=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

PAGI::Tools::Tutorial - Optional convenience helpers for PAGI applications

=head1 DESCRIPTION

PAGI itself is a protocol; see L<PAGI::Tutorial> for the protocol tutorial.
The C<PAGI-Tools> distribution adds B<optional> convenience helpers built on
top of that protocol: middleware, request/response sugar, WebSocket and SSE
helpers, routers, and ready-made applications. None of these are required to
write a complete PAGI application; they exist to save you boilerplate when you
want it, and every one of them is an ordinary PAGI application or a plain
wrapper around the C<$scope>/C<$receive>/C<$send> protocol. This guide covers
them.

=head1 PART 1: HELLO WORLD

A PAGI application is an C<async> sub that receives three arguments: C<$scope>
(the request metadata), C<$receive> (pull request-body events), and C<$send>
(push response events). At the raw protocol level, "hello world" emits two
events — the response start (status and headers) and the body:

  use Future::AsyncAwait;

  my $app = async sub {
      my ($scope, $receive, $send) = @_;
      await $send->({
          type    => 'http.response.start',
          status  => 200,
          headers => [['content-type', 'text/plain']],
      });
      await $send->({
          type => 'http.response.body',
          body => 'Hello, world!',
      });
  };

That is a complete, server-ready application — no toolkit required. The helpers
in this distribution simply make the common cases shorter. Here is the same
response built as a L<PAGI::Response> value:

  use Future::AsyncAwait;
  use PAGI::Response;

  my $app = async sub {
      my ($scope, $receive, $send) = @_;
      await PAGI::Response->text('Hello, world!')->respond($send);
  };

C<PAGI::Response> assembles the two events for you, and C<respond> sends them.
Returning JSON is just as short:

  await PAGI::Response->json({ hello => 'world' })->respond($send);

From here the tutorial builds up: routing requests to handlers (PART 2),
reading form and JSON input (PART 3), the full response builder (PART 4),
real-time and streaming (PART 5), middleware (PART 6), and composing larger
applications (PART 7).

=head1 PART 2: ROUTING

=head2 2.1 PAGI::App::Router - Basic Routing

L<PAGI::App::Router> provides lightweight functional routing:

  use PAGI::App::Router;
  use PAGI::Response;

  my $router = PAGI::App::Router->new;

  # Mount a static response value — dispatch sends it automatically
  $router->mount('/health' => PAGI::Response->json({ ok => \1 }));

  # HTTP routes
  $router->get('/' => async sub {
      my ($scope, $receive, $send) = @_;
      my $res = PAGI::Response->new($scope);
      await $res->text('Home')->respond($send);
  });

  $router->post('/users' => async sub {
      my ($scope, $receive, $send) = @_;
      my $res = PAGI::Response->new($scope);
      await $res->json({ created => 1 }, status => 201)->respond($send);
  });

  # Path parameters
  $router->get('/users/:id' => async sub {
      my ($scope, $receive, $send) = @_;
      my $req = PAGI::Request->new($scope, $receive);
      my $res = $req->response;
      my $id = $req->path_param('id');
      await $res->json({ id => $id })->respond($send);
  });

  # WebSocket and SSE handlers drive $send imperatively — no return value
  $router->websocket('/ws' => async sub { ... });
  $router->sse('/events' => async sub { ... });

  $router->to_app;

For advanced routing patterns (nested routers, route-level middleware, class-based routing), see L<PAGI::Tools::Cookbook>.

=head1 PART 3: HANDLING REQUESTS

Once a request is routed to a handler, L<PAGI::Request> turns the raw C<$scope>
and C<$receive> into a convenient object: query and path parameters, headers,
cookies, and — the focus of this part — form bodies, JSON bodies, and file
uploads. It handles UTF-8 decoding and body parsing for you.

=head2 3.1 PAGI::Request - Request Parsing

L<PAGI::Request> parses HTTP requests and provides convenient accessors for headers, query parameters, cookies, and request bodies.

=head3 Creating a Request

  my $req = PAGI::Request->new($scope, $receive);
  my $res = $req->response;

  await $res->text("You requested: " . $req->path)->respond($send);

=head3 Basic Properties

  $req->method         # HTTP method (GET, POST, etc.)
  $req->path           # URL path (decoded UTF-8)
  $req->query_string   # Query string (raw bytes)
  $req->scheme         # 'http' or 'https'
  $req->host           # Host header value

=head3 Headers

  # Get single header (case-insensitive)
  my $user_agent = $req->header('user-agent') // 'Unknown';

  # Get content type
  my $ct = $req->content_type;

  # Get bearer token from Authorization: Bearer <token>
  my $token = $req->bearer_token;

=head3 Query Parameters

  # Get single parameter
  my $page = $req->query_param('page') // '1';

  # Get all parameters as Hash::MultiValue
  my $params = $req->query_params;
  my @tags = $params->get_all('tag');  # For ?tag=foo&tag=bar

=head3 Body Parsing

  # Read entire body as raw bytes
  my $bytes = await $req->body;

  # Parse JSON body
  my $data = await $req->json;

  # Parse URL-encoded form
  my $form = await $req->form_params;
  my $name = $form->get('name');

  # Or get a single form value directly
  my $email = await $req->form_param('email');

Content-type predicates:

=over 4

=item * C<is_json()> - True if Content-Type is application/json

=item * C<is_form()> - True if form data (urlencoded or multipart)

=back

=head3 Streaming Large Request Bodies

The body methods above buffer the whole body in memory. For large uploads,
stream it instead with C<body_stream>, which returns a
L<PAGI::Request::BodyStream> you consume incrementally:

  # Pull chunks yourself (undef at end-of-body or client disconnect)
  my $stream = $req->body_stream(max_bytes => 100 * 1024 * 1024);
  while (defined(my $chunk = await $stream->next_chunk)) {
      # ... process $chunk ...
  }

  # Or drain straight to a file (never holds the whole body in memory)
  await $req->body_stream->stream_to_file('/uploads/data.bin');

  # Or to a custom async sink — the read pauses until your sink resolves,
  # giving you natural backpressure
  await $req->body_stream->stream_to(async sub ($chunk) {
      await $store->append($chunk);
  });

Options: C<max_bytes> (a size cap; defaults to the Content-Length header),
C<decode> (e.g. C<'UTF-8'>, which handles multi-byte sequences split across
chunk boundaries), and C<strict> (throw on invalid UTF-8).

B<Streaming is mutually exclusive with the buffered methods.> Once you call
C<body_stream>, C<body>/C<text>/C<json>/C<form_params> are unavailable on that
request (and vice versa) — a body can only be consumed once.

Multipart file uploads stream automatically: C<< $req->upload >> /
C<< $req->uploads >> spool large parts to a temp file rather than holding them
in memory, so you rarely need C<body_stream> for ordinary form uploads. See
L<PAGI::Request::BodyStream> for the full API and backpressure examples.

When you would rather own where each upload goes, C<multipart_stream> returns a
L<PAGI::Request::MultipartStream> that yields one part at a time:

  my $stream = $req->multipart_stream;
  while (defined(my $part = await $stream->next)) {
      if ($part->is_file) {
          await $part->stream_to(async sub ($chunk) { await $sink->write($chunk) });
      } else {
          my $value = await $part->value;
      }
  }

This bypasses the auto-spool, so each upload part goes straight to your sink (an
S3 client, a transform, an async writer) instead of a temp file, and the sink
can be fully asynchronous -- the read pauses until your sink's Future resolves.
Slow-client and idle-read timeouts, and the aggregate C<max_body_size> cap, are
enforced by the PAGI server, not by this layer (the stream cannot impose a
wall-clock timeout itself).

=head1 PART 4: BUILDING RESPONSES

=head2 4.1 PAGI::Response - Fluent Response Builder

L<PAGI::Response> provides a fluent interface for building HTTP responses. Instead of manually constructing C<http.response.start> and C<http.response.body> events, you use chainable methods.

=head3 Creating a Response

  use v5.40;
  use Future::AsyncAwait;
  use PAGI::Response;

  async sub app {
      my ($scope, $receive, $send) = @_;

      die "Expected http scope" unless $scope->{type} eq 'http';

      # Create a response value (no connection yet)
      my $res = PAGI::Response->new($scope);

      # Build the response, then send it via respond($send)
      await $res->text('Hello, World!')->respond($send);
  }

  \&app;

=head3 Simple Responses

L<PAGI::Response> provides methods for common response types. Each body
method sets the body and returns C<$self>, so you chain C<respond($send)>
to transmit:

  my $res = PAGI::Response->new($scope);

  # Plain text
  await $res->text('Hello, World!')->respond($send);

  # HTML
  await $res->html('<h1>Hello, World!</h1>')->respond($send);

  # JSON
  await $res->json({ message => 'Hello, World!' })->respond($send);

  # Empty response (204 No Content)
  await $res->empty()->respond($send);

Factory class methods build a detached response value you can use directly
or mount on a router:

  # Build and send inline
  await PAGI::Response->json({ ok => \1 })->respond($send);

  # Mount a static value — dispatch calls respond automatically
  $router->mount('/health' => PAGI::Response->json({ ok => \1 }));

Key points:

=over 4

=item * C<text()> sets Content-Type to text/plain; charset=utf-8

=item * C<html()> sets Content-Type to text/html; charset=utf-8

=item * C<json()> sets Content-Type to application/json (no charset; JSON is always UTF-8)

=item * All methods automatically encode strings to UTF-8 bytes

=back

=head3 Status and Headers

Use chainable methods to set status and headers before sending. In a raw
app the chain ends with C<respond($send)>:

  await $res->status(201)
            ->header('X-Request-ID', '12345')
            ->header('X-Custom', 'value')
            ->content_type('application/json')
            ->json({ created => 1 })
            ->respond($send);

Alternatively, pass C<status> and C<headers> as options directly to the
body factory:

  await PAGI::Response->json({ created => 1 },
      status  => 201,
      headers => ['X-Request-ID' => '12345'],   # flat [ name => value, ... ]
  )->respond($send);

Chainable methods:

=over 4

=item * C<status($code)> - Set HTTP status (default: 200)

=item * C<header($name, $value)> - Add a response header

=item * C<content_type($type)> - Set Content-Type header

=item * C<cookie($name, $value, %opts)> - Set a cookie

=back

=head3 Redirects

C<redirect> takes the destination URL and an optional B<positional> status
(default 302). In a raw app, chain C<respond($send)> to transmit:

  # Temporary redirect (302 Found - default)
  await $res->redirect('/new-page')->respond($send);

  # Permanent redirect (301 Moved Permanently)
  await $res->redirect('/modern', 301)->respond($send);

  # See Other (303 - used after POST)
  await $res->redirect('/success', 303)->respond($send);

The factory form works the same way:

  await PAGI::Response->redirect('/login', 302)->respond($send);

B<Note:> C<redirect()> sets the body and returns C<$self>; the response is
not transmitted until C<respond($send)> is called. Use C<return> after
the await if you have more code below.

=head1 PART 5: REAL-TIME & STREAMING

=head2 5.1 PAGI::WebSocket - WebSocket Helper

L<PAGI::WebSocket> simplifies WebSocket connections:

  my $ws = PAGI::WebSocket->new($scope, $receive, $send);
  await $ws->accept;

  # Send and receive
  await $ws->send_text("Hello!");
  my $msg = await $ws->receive;

  # JSON messages
  await $ws->send_json({ type => 'greeting' });
  my $data = await $ws->receive_json;

  # Message loop
  await $ws->each_text(async sub {
      my ($text) = @_;
      await $ws->send_text("Echo: $text");
  });

  await $ws->close(1000, 'Goodbye');

=head2 5.2 PAGI::SSE - Server-Sent Events Helper

L<PAGI::SSE> simplifies Server-Sent Events:

  my $sse = PAGI::SSE->new($scope, $receive, $send);
  await $sse->start;

  # Send events (data is a named argument)
  await $sse->send_event(data => "Hello!");
  await $sse->send_event(data => "User logged in", event => 'login', id => '42');

  # Send JSON with an event name (hashref/arrayref data is auto-encoded)
  await $sse->send_event(data => { count => 5 }, event => 'update');

  # Or, for a plain JSON message with no event name:
  await $sse->send_json({ count => 5 });

  # Keepalive to prevent proxy timeouts
  await $sse->keepalive(15);

  # Wait for disconnect
  await $sse->run;

=head2 5.3 The Event Dispatcher

When the receive stream mixes protocol events with application events -- for
example, middleware that injects pub/sub messages -- L<PAGI::Context> offers a
small dispatch loop: register a handler per event type and C<run> once, instead
of a hand-rolled C<while (defined(my $e = await $ctx-E<gt>receive-E<gt>()))> loop.

  my $ctx = PAGI::Context->new($scope, $receive, $send);
  await $ctx->accept;

  $ctx->on('websocket.receive', async sub {
      my ($ctx, $event) = @_;
      await $ctx->send_text("echo: $event->{text}");
  });
  $ctx->on('app.notify', async sub {        # an event injected by middleware
      my ($ctx, $event) = @_;
      await $ctx->send_json({ notice => $event->{message} });
  });
  $ctx->on_error(sub { my ($ctx, $err, $src) = @_; warn "[$src] $err" });

  my $reason = await $ctx->run;   # 'disconnect', 'stop', or 'error'

See L<PAGI::Tools::Cookbook/"Handling a Mixed Event Stream"> for a fuller example.

=head1 PART 6: MIDDLEWARE

Middleware provides reusable functionality that wraps your application handlers. PAGI includes 30+ middleware components for logging, security, compression, sessions, and more.

=head2 6.1 How Middleware Works

At the protocol level there is nothing special about middleware: it is simply a
PAGI application that wraps another PAGI application. It receives the same
C<($scope, $receive, $send)>, does its work before and/or after, and delegates
to the app it wraps. That lets a middleware:

=over 4

=item * Modify the request scope before the inner app sees it

=item * Short-circuit the request and respond early, without calling the inner app

=item * Intercept and modify the response on its way out

=item * Add side effects such as logging or timing

=back

=head3 The raw-PAGI version

Say we want to stamp every response with an C<X-Powered-By> header. With nothing
but the protocol, a middleware is a function that wraps an app and intercepts the
C<http.response.start> event by wrapping C<$send>:

  use Future::AsyncAwait;

  sub add_powered_by {
      my ($app) = @_;
      return async sub {
          my ($scope, $receive, $send) = @_;

          # Wrap $send so we can edit the response-start event on its way out
          my $wrapped_send = async sub {
              my ($event) = @_;
              if ($event->{type} eq 'http.response.start') {
                  push @{ $event->{headers} }, ['x-powered-by', 'PAGI'];
              }
              await $send->($event);
          };

          await $app->($scope, $receive, $wrapped_send);
      };
  }

It works, but you write the C<$send>-wrapping boilerplate by hand, and you
compose middleware by nesting function calls — which reads inside-out and hides
the running order:

  my $app = add_powered_by( time_requests( access_log( $inner_app ) ) );

=head3 The PAGI::Middleware version

Here is the same middleware as a L<PAGI::Middleware> subclass. The base class
supplies the wrapping helpers; C<intercept_send> hands your callback each
outgoing C<$event> together with the original C<$send> to forward it to:

  package MyApp::Middleware::PoweredBy;
  use parent 'PAGI::Middleware';
  use Future::AsyncAwait;

  sub wrap {
      my ($self, $app) = @_;
      return async sub {
          my ($scope, $receive, $send) = @_;

          my $wrapped_send = $self->intercept_send($send, async sub {
              my ($event, $orig_send) = @_;
              push @{ $event->{headers} }, ['x-powered-by', 'PAGI']
                  if $event->{type} eq 'http.response.start';
              await $orig_send->($event);
          });

          await $app->($scope, $receive, $wrapped_send);
      };
  }

  1;

Now it composes with the C<builder> as a flat stack that reads top-to-bottom, in
the order it runs:

  use PAGI::Middleware::Builder;

  my $app = builder {
      enable '^MyApp::Middleware::PoweredBy';
      enable 'AccessLog';
      enable 'Runtime';
      $router;
  };

=head3 Why the toolkit version is worth it

The behavior is identical — what you gain is everything around it:

=over 4

=item * B<Composition.> The C<builder> stack reads in run order, top to bottom,
instead of inside-out function nesting. Adding, removing, or reordering a
middleware is a one-line change.

=item * B<Configuration.> A middleware is a configurable object —
C<enable 'GZip', min_size =E<gt> 1024> — with construction-time validation,
rather than a closure capturing lexicals.

=item * B<Reuse.> It is an ordinary class: ship it on CPAN, share it between
apps, or reach for one of the 30+ already in this distribution (see
L</6.3 Essential Middleware Reference>) rather than writing your own.

=item * B<Conditional and per-route use.> C<enable_if { ... } 'Name'> applies a
middleware only when a condition holds, and any route can carry its own
middleware list (see L</6.2 Using Middleware with Builder>).

=item * B<Helpers.> The base provides C<intercept_send>, C<modify_scope>,
C<buffer_request_body>, and friends, so each middleware isn't re-implementing
the protocol plumbing.

=back

=head2 6.2 Using Middleware with Builder

The L<PAGI::Middleware::Builder> DSL lets you compose middleware into your application.

=head3 Global Middleware

Apply middleware to all routes using the C<builder> function:

  use PAGI::Middleware::Builder;
  use PAGI::App::Router;

  my $router = PAGI::App::Router->new;

  $router->get('/' => async sub {
      my ($scope, $receive, $send) = @_;
      await $send->({
          type    => 'http.response.start',
          status  => 200,
          headers => [['content-type', 'text/plain']],
      });
      await $send->({
          type => 'http.response.body',
          body => 'Hello World',
      });
  });

  # Wrap with middleware using builder; the block's final value can be
  # an app coderef, a component, or (as here) the router itself
  my $app = builder {
      enable 'AccessLog', format => 'combined';
      enable 'CORS', origins => '*';
      enable 'GZip', min_size => 1024;
      $router;
  };

Middleware executes in order: AccessLog -> CORS -> GZip -> app.

=head3 Multiple Middleware Example

  my $app = builder {
      enable 'RequestId';                      # Add X-Request-Id header
      enable 'AccessLog', format => 'tiny';    # Log requests
      enable 'Runtime';                        # Add X-Runtime header
      enable 'CORS', origins => '*';           # Enable CORS
      enable 'SecurityHeaders';                # Add security headers
      enable 'GZip', min_size => 1024;         # Compress responses
      enable 'ErrorHandler', development => 1;  # Pretty errors
      $router;
  };

=head3 Middleware Instances

C<enable> also accepts an already-configured middleware instance — useful
when you build the instance elsewhere or want construction-time errors.
The parentheses are required for the instance form:

  my $gzip = PAGI::Middleware::GZip->new(min_size => 1024);

  my $app = builder {
      enable 'AccessLog', format => 'tiny';
      enable($gzip);
      $router;
  };

=head2 6.3 Essential Middleware Reference

=head3 Logging & Debugging

=over 4

=item * L<PAGI::Middleware::AccessLog>

Log HTTP requests in Apache-style formats:

  enable 'AccessLog', format => 'combined';  # Apache combined log
  enable 'AccessLog', format => 'common';    # Apache common log
  enable 'AccessLog', format => 'tiny';      # Minimal format

=item * L<PAGI::Middleware::RequestId>

Add unique request ID to each request:

  enable 'RequestId';  # Adds X-Request-Id header

Access via C<$scope-E<gt>{request_id}>.

=item * L<PAGI::Middleware::Runtime>

Add response time header:

  enable 'Runtime';  # Adds X-Runtime header in seconds

=back

=head3 Security

=over 4

=item * L<PAGI::Middleware::CORS>

Enable Cross-Origin Resource Sharing:

  enable 'CORS',
      origins     => '*',                    # or ['https://example.com']
      methods     => ['GET', 'POST'],
      headers     => ['Content-Type'],
      credentials => 1,
      max_age     => 86400;

=item * L<PAGI::Middleware::SecurityHeaders>

Add security-related HTTP headers:

  enable 'SecurityHeaders';  # Adds CSP, X-Frame-Options, etc.

Includes:

  X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN
  X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
  X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
  Referrer-Policy: strict-origin-when-cross-origin

=item * L<PAGI::Middleware::CSRF>

Protect against Cross-Site Request Forgery:

  enable 'CSRF', cookie_name => '_csrf_token';

Validates CSRF tokens on POST/PUT/PATCH/DELETE requests.

=back

=head3 Sessions & Cookies

=over 4

=item * L<PAGI::Middleware::Cookie>

Parse request cookies:

  enable 'Cookie';

Access via C<$scope-E<gt>{'pagi.cookies'}>.

=item * L<PAGI::Middleware::Session>

Server-side sessions with signed cookies:

  enable 'Session',
      secret      => 'your-secret-key',
      cookie_name => 'session',
      expire      => 86400;

Access via C<$scope-E<gt>{'pagi.session'}>.

=back

=head3 Performance

=over 4

=item * L<PAGI::Middleware::GZip>

Compress responses with gzip:

  enable 'GZip',
      min_size   => 1024,             # Only compress if > 1KB
      mime_types => ['text/', 'application/json'];

=item * L<PAGI::Middleware::ETag>

Automatic ETag generation and validation:

  enable 'ETag';

Returns 304 Not Modified for matching If-None-Match headers.

=item * L<PAGI::Middleware::RateLimit>

Rate limiting with configurable strategies:

  enable 'RateLimit',
      requests_per_second => 100,         # token-bucket refill rate
      burst               => 100,         # bucket capacity (max burst)
      key_generator       => sub {        # key generator (defaults to client IP)
          my ($scope) = @_;
          return $scope->{client}[0];      # by IP
      };

=back

=head3 Error Handling

=over 4

=item * L<PAGI::Middleware::ErrorHandler>

Catch and format errors:

  enable 'ErrorHandler', development => 1;  # Pretty HTML errors with stack traces
  enable 'ErrorHandler';                    # Production (default): generic errors, no stack leak

C<ErrorHandler> renders C<text/html> by default; set
C<< content_type => 'application/json' >> (or C<'text/plain'>) to change the
format.

=back

=head2 6.4 Writing Custom Middleware

Create reusable middleware by extending L<PAGI::Middleware>:

  package MyApp::Middleware::Auth;
  use parent 'PAGI::Middleware';
  use Future::AsyncAwait;

  sub new {
      my ($class, %args) = @_;
      return bless { secret => $args{secret} }, $class;
  }

  sub wrap {
      my ($self, $app) = @_;

      return async sub {
          my ($scope, $receive, $send) = @_;

          # Check auth header
          my $auth = $self->get_header($scope, 'Authorization');

          if ($auth && $auth =~ /^Bearer (.+)/) {
              my $token = $1;
              my $user = verify_token($token, $self->{secret});
              PAGI::Stash->new($scope)->set(user => $user) if $user;
          }

          # Call next middleware/app
          await $app->($scope, $receive, $send);
      };
  }

  sub get_header {
      my ($self, $scope, $name) = @_;
      $name = lc $name;
      for my $header (@{$scope->{headers} || []}) {
          return $header->[1] if lc($header->[0]) eq $name;
      }
      return undef;
  }

  sub verify_token {
      my ($token, $secret) = @_;
      # Token verification logic here
      return { id => 1, username => 'alice' };
  }

  1;

Use it with the builder:

  my $app = builder {
      enable '^MyApp::Middleware::Auth', secret => 'secret-key';
      $router;
  };

The C<^> prefix tells the builder to use the class name as-is instead of
prepending C<PAGI::Middleware::>. Or skip name resolution entirely by
passing a configured instance (parentheses required):

  my $app = builder {
      enable(MyApp::Middleware::Auth->new(secret => 'secret-key'));
      $router;
  };

Or per-route:

  my $auth = MyApp::Middleware::Auth->new(secret => 'secret-key');
  $router->get('/admin' => [$auth] => $handler);

=head3 Middleware Patterns

=over 4

=item * Modify scope

Add data for downstream handlers:

  sub wrap {
      my ($self, $app) = @_;
      return async sub {
          my ($scope, $receive, $send) = @_;
          PAGI::Stash->new($scope)->set(custom_data => 'value');
          await $app->($scope, $receive, $send);
      };
  }

=item * Intercept responses

Modify outgoing events:

  sub wrap {
      my ($self, $app) = @_;
      return async sub {
          my ($scope, $receive, $send) = @_;

          my $wrapped_send = $self->intercept_send($send, async sub {
              my ($event, $original_send) = @_;
              if ($event->{type} eq 'http.response.start') {
                  push @{$event->{headers}}, ['x-custom', 'value'];
              }
              await $original_send->($event);
          });

          await $app->($scope, $receive, $wrapped_send);
      };
  }

=item * Short-circuit requests

Return early without calling inner app:

  sub wrap {
      my ($self, $app) = @_;
      return async sub {
          my ($scope, $receive, $send) = @_;

          # Check condition
          unless ($self->is_authorized($scope)) {
              await $send->({
                  type    => 'http.response.start',
                  status  => 403,
                  headers => [['content-type', 'text/plain']],
              });
              await $send->({
                  type => 'http.response.body',
                  body => 'Forbidden',
              });
              return;  # Don't call $app
          }

          await $app->($scope, $receive, $send);
      };
  }

=back

=head1 PART 7: COMPOSING APPLICATIONS

PAGI ships with several ready-to-use applications for common tasks. These can be mounted with routers or used standalone.

=head2 7.1 PAGI::App::File - Static Files

L<PAGI::App::File> serves static files with security, caching, and streaming:

  use PAGI::App::File;

  my $static = PAGI::App::File->new(root => './public');
  $router->mount('/static' => $static);

Features:

=over 4

=item * Efficient streaming (large files don't consume memory)

=item * ETag caching with 304 Not Modified support

=item * HTTP Range requests for resume support

=item * Automatic MIME type detection

=item * Security: path traversal protection

=back

=head2 7.2 PAGI::App::Healthcheck - Health Endpoints

L<PAGI::App::Healthcheck> creates health check endpoints:

  use PAGI::App::Healthcheck;

  my $health = PAGI::App::Healthcheck->new(
      version => '1.0.0',
      checks => {
          database => sub { $db && $db->ping },
          cache    => sub { $redis && $redis->ping },
      },
  );

  $router->mount('/health' => $health);

=head2 7.3 PAGI::App::URLMap - Mount Applications

L<PAGI::App::URLMap> routes requests to different apps based on URL prefix:

  use PAGI::App::URLMap;

  my $urlmap = PAGI::App::URLMap->new;
  $urlmap->mount('/api' => $api_app);
  $urlmap->mount('/admin' => $admin_app);
  $urlmap->mount('/static' => $static);
  $urlmap->to_app;

=head2 7.4 PAGI::App::Cascade - Try Apps in Sequence

L<PAGI::App::Cascade> tries apps in order until one returns a non-404:

  use PAGI::App::Cascade;

  my $app = PAGI::App::Cascade->new(
      apps => [$static, $api, $fallback],
      catch => [404, 405],
  );

=head2 7.5 PAGI::App::Proxy - Reverse Proxy

L<PAGI::App::Proxy> forwards requests to backend servers:

  use PAGI::App::Proxy;

  my $proxy = PAGI::App::Proxy->new(
      backend => 'http://localhost:8080',
      timeout => 30,
  );
  $router->mount('/api' => $proxy);

=head2 7.6 PAGI::App::WrapPSGI - Use Existing PSGI Apps

L<PAGI::App::WrapPSGI> lets you use existing PSGI applications:

  use PAGI::App::WrapPSGI;

  my $wrapped = PAGI::App::WrapPSGI->new(psgi_app => $legacy_app);
  $router->mount('/legacy' => $wrapped);

Useful for incremental migration from PSGI to PAGI.

=head2 7.7 Application Composition

Every place this toolkit accepts an application coerces its argument
through L<PAGI::Utils/to_app>, so three forms are interchangeable in
app position:

=over 4

=item * An B<async coderef> — the protocol-level form, used unchanged

=item * A B<component object> — anything with a C<to_app> method,
compiled once at composition time:
C<< PAGI::App::File->new(root => 'public') >>

=item * A B<class name string> — auto-required if needed, then compiled
via the class-method C<to_app>: C<'MyApp::API'>

=back

App positions are: C<mount> targets and route handlers in
L<PAGI::App::Router>, C<mount> and the final block value in
L<PAGI::Middleware::Builder>'s C<builder {}>, L<PAGI::App::URLMap>
mounts and its C<default>, L<PAGI::App::Cascade> entries, and the
C<app> argument to L<PAGI::Test::Client>. Put together:

  my $app = builder {
      enable 'AccessLog';
      mount '/static' => PAGI::App::File->new(root => 'public');
      mount '/api'    => 'MyApp::API';
      PAGI::Response->text('no such page')->status(404);
  };

Compilation happens exactly once, when the composition point receives
the component — never per request.

Middleware position is the same idea with a different duck type:
C<enable> accepts a middleware name (resolved under
C<PAGI::Middleware::>, with C<^> to escape) or a configured instance
with a C<wrap> method, and per-route middleware arrays in
L<PAGI::App::Router> accept instances or
C<($scope, $receive, $send, $next)> coderefs.

Passing middleware where an app belongs (or vice versa) croaks at
composition time with a message pointing at the right position.

The one place that still wants an explicit C<< ->to_app >> is the value
your F<app.pl> hands to the server: the server contract is a plain
coderef, so end your file with C<< $router->to_app >> (or a
C<builder {}> block, which already returns one).

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item * L<PAGI::Tutorial> - the PAGI protocol tutorial (the foundation)

=item * L<PAGI> - the PAGI specification distribution

=item * L<PAGI::Tools::Cookbook> - recipes for common tasks

=item * L<PAGI::Middleware::Builder>, L<PAGI::App::Router>, L<PAGI::Response>, L<PAGI::Request> - individual module documentation

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

PAGI Contributors

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2025 by the PAGI contributors.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
