=head1 NAME

Unix::Mgt - lightweight Unix management tools

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # get user account
 $user = Unix::Mgt::User->get('fred');

 # display some info
 print 'uid: ', $user->uid, "\n";
 print join(', ', $user->groups()), "\n";

 # set some properties
 $user->gid('websters');
 $user->shell('/bin/bash');
 $user->add_to_group('postgres');

 # create user account
 $user = Unix::Mgt::User->create('vera');

 # get user account, creating it if necessary
 $user = Unix::Mgt::User->ensure('molly');

 # get group
 $group = Unix::Mgt::Group->get('www-data');

 # display some info
 print 'gid: ', $group->gid, "\n";
 print join(', ', $group->members()), "\n";

 # add a member
 $group->add_member('tucker');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Unix::Mgt provides simple object-oriented tools for managing your Unixish
system.  Currently this module provides tools for managing users and groups.
Other tools may follow as they evolve.

Unix::Mgt does not directly manipulate any of the system files such as
C</etc/passwd>. This module uses Perl's built-in Unix functions such as
C<getgrent> to get information, and Unix's built-in programs such as
C<adduser>.

=head2 Early release

In the spirit of "release early, release often", I'm releasing this version
of Unix::Mgt before it has all the features that might be expected. This
version does not include methods for removing users from groups, renaming
users or groups, or several other methods.

=head1 Unix::Mgt::User

A Unix::Mgt::User object represents a user in the Unix system. The object
allows you to get and set information about the user account. A user object
is created in one of three ways: C<get>, C<create>, or C<ensure>. The C<new>
method is an alias for C<get>.

Unix::Mgt::User objects stringify to the account's name. For example, the
following code would output C<miko>.

 $user = Unix::Mgt::User->get('miko');
 print $user, "\n";

=head2 get

Unix::Mgt::User->get() retrieves user account information using C<getpwnam> or
C<getpwuid>.  The single param for this method is either the name or the uid of
the user.

 $user = Unix::Mgt::User->get('vera');
 $user = Unix::Mgt::User->get('1010');

If the user is not found then the C<do-not-have-user> error id is set in
C<$Unix::Mgt::err_id> and undef is returned.

=head2 create

Unix::Mgt::User->create() creates a user account.  The required param for this
method is the name for the new account.

 $user = Unix::Mgt::User->create('vera');

If the C<system> param is true, then the account is created as a system user,
like this:

 $user = Unix::Mgt::User->create('lanny', system=>1);

create() uses the Unix C<adduser> program.

=head2 ensure

Unix::Mgt::User->ensure() gets a user account if it already exists, and
creates the account if it does not. For example, the following lines ensures
the C<molly> account:

 $user = Unix::Mgt::User->ensure('molly');

=head2 name

Returns the name of the user account. Currently this method cannot be used to
set the account name.

 print $user->name(), "\n";

=head2 uid

Returns the user's user id (uid).

 print $user->uid(), "\n";

=head2 passwd

Returns the password field from C<getpwname()>.  This method will not actually
return a password, it will probably just return C<*>.

 print $user->passwd(), "\n"; # probably outputs "*"

=head2 gid

Sets/gets the gid of the user's primary group. Called without params, it
returns the user's gid:

 print $user->gid(), "\n";

Called with a single param, gid() sets, then returns the user's primary
group id:

 print $user->gid('1010'), "\n";

If you want to get a Unix::Mgt::Group object representing the user's primary
group, use $user->group().

=head2 dir

Sets/gets the user's home directory. Called without params, it returns the
directory name:

 print $user->dir(), "\n";

Called with a single param, dir() sets, then returns the user's home directory:

 print $user->dir('/tmp'), "\n";

=head2 shell

Sets/gets the user's default command line shell. Called without params, it
returns the shell name:

 print $user->shell(), "\n";

Called with a single param, shell() sets, then returns the user's shell:

 print $user->shell('/bin/sh'), "\n";

=head2 group

Sets/gets the user's primary group. When called without any params, C<group()>
returns a Unix::Mgt::Group object representing the user's primary group:

 $group = $user->group();

When called with a single param, C<group()> sets the user's primary group. The
param can be either the group's name or its gid:

 $user->group('video');
 $user->group(44);

=head2 secondary_groups

C<secondary_groups()> returns an array of the user's secondary groups. Each
element in the array is a Unix::Mgt::Group object.

 @groups = $user->secondary_groups();

=head2 groups

C<groups()> returns an array of all of the groups the user is a member of. The
first element in the array will be the user's primary group.

 @groups = $user->groups();

=head2 add_to_group

C<add_to_group()> adds the user to a group.  The group will be one of the user's
secondary groups, not the primary group.

 $user->add_to_group('video');

=head2 remove

C<remove> removes the user account from the system. C<remove> does not take any
parameters.

 $user->remove();

=head1 Unix::Mgt::Group

A Unix::Mgt::Group object represents a group in the Unix system. The object
allows you to get and set information about the group. A group object is
created in one of three ways: C<get>, C<create>, or C<ensure>. The C<new>
method is an alias for C<get>.

Unix::Mgt::Group objects stringify to the groups's name. For example, the
following code would output C<video>.

 $group = Unix::Mgt::Group->get('video');
 print $group, "\n";

=head2 get

Unix::Mgt::Group->get() retrieves group information using C<getgrnam> or
C<getgrgid>.  The single param for this method is either the name or the gid of
the group.

 $group = Unix::Mgt::Group->get('video');
 $group = Unix::Mgt::Group->get('44');

If the group is not found then the C<do-not-have-group> error id is set in
C<$Unix::Mgt::err_id> and undef is returned.

=head2 create

Unix::Mgt::Group->create() creates a group.  The required param for this method
is the name for the new group.

 $group = Unix::Mgt::Group->create('websters');

create() uses the Unix C<groupadd> program.

=head2 ensure

Unix::Mgt::Group->ensure() gets a group if it already exists, and creates the
group if it does not. For example, the following lines ensures
the C<wbesters> group:

 $group = Unix::Mgt::User->ensure('wbesters');

=head2 name

Returns the name of the group. Currently this method cannot be used to set the
group name.

 print $group->name(), "\n";

=head2 gid

Returns the groups's group id (gid).

 print $group->gid(), "\n";

=head2 members

C<members()> returns an array of all members of the group. Both users for whom
this is the primary group, and users for whom this is a secondary group are
returned.

 @members = $group->members();

The elements in the array are Unix::Mgt::User objects.

=head2 primary_members

C<primary_members()> returns an array of users for whom this is the primary
group.

 @members = $group->primary_members();

The elements in the returned array are Unix::Mgt::User objects.

=head2 secondary_members

C<secondary_members()> returns an array of users for whom this is a secondary group.

 @members = $group->secondary_members();

The elements in the returned array are Unix::Mgt::User objects.

=head2 add_member

C<add_member()> adds a user to the group as a secondary group.  The single
param can be a user name, uid, or Unix::Mgt::User object.

 $group->add_member('miko');

If the user is already a member of the group then nothing is done and no error
is set.

=head2 remove

C<remove> removes the group from the system. C<remove> does not take any
parameters.

 $group->remove();

If any users have the group as a primary group then this method will fail.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Passwd::Unix|http://search.cpan.org/~strzelec/Passwd-Unix/> and
L<Unix::Passwd::File|http://search.cpan.org/~sharyanto/Unix-Passwd-File/>
provide similar functionality.

=head1 TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Copyright (c) 2014 by Miko O'Sullivan. All rights reserved. This program is
free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms
as Perl itself. This software comes with no warranty of any kind.

=head1 AUTHOR

Miko O'Sullivan C<miko@idocs.com>

=head1 TO DO

This is an early release of Unix::Mgt. It does not include methods for
deleting users, removing them from groups, or other deletion oriented
objectives.

Please feel free to contribute code for these purposes.

=head1 HISTORY

=over 4

=item Version 0.10 December 30, 2014

Initial release

=item Version 0.11 December 31, 2014

Changed addgroup to groupadd.

Added tests for existence of adduser, usermod, and groupadd.

=item Version 0.12 January 3, 2015

Fixed some POD formatting issues.

Revised tests to include test names.

=item Version 0.13 January 4, 2015

Added $user->remove() and $group->remove().

Added slots where BSD-style commands will go. Currently, methods for creating,
modifying, or deleting users or group will fail on BSD.

=item Version 0.14 February 2, 2015

Added support for BSD. The support is poorly tested because I don't have a BSD
system. Any feedback is appreciated.

Added Unix::Mgt::User::new and Unix::Mgt::Group::new as aliases to get().

=back

