=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

POSIX::1003::Confstr - POSIX access to confstr()

=head1 INHERITANCE

 POSIX::1003::Confstr
   is a POSIX::1003::Module

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use POSIX::1003::Confstr;   # import all

  use POSIX::1003::Confstr 'confstr';
  my $path = confstr('_CS_PATH');

  use POSIX::1003::Confstr '_CS_PATH';
  my $path = _CS_PATH;

  use POSIX::1003::Confstr '%confstr';
  my $key = $confstr{_CS_PATH};
  $confstr{_CS_NEW_CONF} = $key;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

With C<confstr()> you can retreive string values from the operating
system. It is the counterpart of C<sysconf()> which can only return
numeric values.

See L<documentation in the base class|POSIX::1003::Module/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

See L<documentation in the base class|POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">.
 
=over 4

=item POSIX::1003::Confstr-E<gt>B<exampleValue>(NAME)

See L<POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<import>()

See L<POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">

=back

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 Standard POSIX

=over 4

=item B<confstr>(NAME)

Returns the confstr value related to the NAMEd constant.  The NAME
must be a string. C<undef> will be returned when the NAME is not
known by the system.

example: 

  my $path = confstr('_CS_PATH') || '/bin:/usr/bin';

=back

=head2 Additional

=over 4

=item B<confstr_names>()

Returns a list with all known names, unsorted.

=back

=head1 CONSTANTS

=over 4

=item B<%confstr>

This exported variable is a (tied) HASH which maps C<_CS_*>
names to the unique numbers to be used with the system's C<confstr()>
function.

=back

The following constants where detected on your system when the
module got installed.  The second column shows the value which
where returned at that time.

=for comment
#TABLE_CONFSTR_START

  _CS_GNU_LIBC_VERSION                 'glibc 2.15'
  _CS_GNU_LIBPTHREAD_VERSION           'NPTL 2.15'
  _CS_LFS64_CFLAGS                     '-D_LARGEFILE64_SOURCE'
  _CS_LFS64_LDFLAGS                    ''
  _CS_LFS64_LIBS                       ''
  _CS_LFS64_LINTFLAGS                  '-D_LARGEFILE64_SOURCE'
  _CS_LFS_CFLAGS                       ''
  _CS_LFS_LDFLAGS                      ''
  _CS_LFS_LIBS                         ''
  _CS_LFS_LINTFLAGS                    ''
  _CS_PATH                             '/bin:/usr/bin'
  _CS_POSIX_V5_WIDTH_RESTRICTED_ENVS   'XBS5_LP64_OFF64'
  _CS_POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFF32_CFLAGS      ''
  _CS_POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFF32_LDFLAGS     ''
  _CS_POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFF32_LIBS        ''
  _CS_POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFF32_LINTFLAGS   ''
  _CS_POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFFBIG_CFLAGS     ''
  _CS_POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFFBIG_LDFLAGS    ''
  _CS_POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFFBIG_LIBS       ''
  _CS_POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFFBIG_LINTFLAGS  ''
  _CS_POSIX_V6_LP64_OFF64_CFLAGS       '-m64'
  _CS_POSIX_V6_LP64_OFF64_LDFLAGS      '-m64'
  _CS_POSIX_V6_LP64_OFF64_LIBS         ''
  _CS_POSIX_V6_LP64_OFF64_LINTFLAGS    ''
  _CS_POSIX_V6_LPBIG_OFFBIG_CFLAGS     ''
  _CS_POSIX_V6_LPBIG_OFFBIG_LDFLAGS    ''
  _CS_POSIX_V6_LPBIG_OFFBIG_LIBS       ''
  _CS_POSIX_V6_LPBIG_OFFBIG_LINTFLAGS  ''
  _CS_POSIX_V6_WIDTH_RESTRICTED_ENVS   'POSIX_V6_LP64_OFF64'
  _CS_POSIX_V7_ILP32_OFF32_CFLAGS      ''
  _CS_POSIX_V7_ILP32_OFF32_LDFLAGS     ''
  _CS_POSIX_V7_ILP32_OFF32_LIBS        ''
  _CS_POSIX_V7_ILP32_OFF32_LINTFLAGS   ''
  _CS_POSIX_V7_ILP32_OFFBIG_CFLAGS     ''
  _CS_POSIX_V7_ILP32_OFFBIG_LDFLAGS    ''
  _CS_POSIX_V7_ILP32_OFFBIG_LIBS       ''
  _CS_POSIX_V7_ILP32_OFFBIG_LINTFLAGS  ''
  _CS_POSIX_V7_LP64_OFF64_CFLAGS       '-m64'
  _CS_POSIX_V7_LP64_OFF64_LDFLAGS      '-m64'
  _CS_POSIX_V7_LP64_OFF64_LIBS         ''
  _CS_POSIX_V7_LP64_OFF64_LINTFLAGS    ''
  _CS_POSIX_V7_LPBIG_OFFBIG_CFLAGS     ''
  _CS_POSIX_V7_LPBIG_OFFBIG_LDFLAGS    ''
  _CS_POSIX_V7_LPBIG_OFFBIG_LIBS       ''
  _CS_POSIX_V7_LPBIG_OFFBIG_LINTFLAGS  ''
  _CS_POSIX_V7_WIDTH_RESTRICTED_ENVS   'POSIX_V7_LP64_OFF64'
  _CS_V5_WIDTH_RESTRICTED_ENVS         'XBS5_LP64_OFF64'
  _CS_V6_WIDTH_RESTRICTED_ENVS         'POSIX_V6_LP64_OFF64'
  _CS_V7_WIDTH_RESTRICTED_ENVS         'POSIX_V7_LP64_OFF64'
  _CS_XBS5_ILP32_OFF32_CFLAGS          ''
  _CS_XBS5_ILP32_OFF32_LDFLAGS         ''
  _CS_XBS5_ILP32_OFF32_LIBS            ''
  _CS_XBS5_ILP32_OFF32_LINTFLAGS       ''
  _CS_XBS5_ILP32_OFFBIG_CFLAGS         ''
  _CS_XBS5_ILP32_OFFBIG_LDFLAGS        ''
  _CS_XBS5_ILP32_OFFBIG_LIBS           ''
  _CS_XBS5_ILP32_OFFBIG_LINTFLAGS      ''
  _CS_XBS5_LP64_OFF64_CFLAGS           '-m64'
  _CS_XBS5_LP64_OFF64_LDFLAGS          '-m64'
  _CS_XBS5_LP64_OFF64_LIBS             ''
  _CS_XBS5_LP64_OFF64_LINTFLAGS        ''
  _CS_XBS5_LPBIG_OFFBIG_CFLAGS         ''
  _CS_XBS5_LPBIG_OFFBIG_LDFLAGS        ''
  _CS_XBS5_LPBIG_OFFBIG_LIBS           ''
  _CS_XBS5_LPBIG_OFFBIG_LINTFLAGS      ''


=for comment
#TABLE_CONFSTR_END





=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of POSIX-1003 distribution version 0.98,
built on December 03, 2013. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  The code is based on L<POSIX>, which
is released with Perl itself.  See also L<POSIX::Util> for
additional functionality.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights 2011-2013 on the perl code and the related documentation
 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

