=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

POSIX::1003::Locale - POSIX handling locale settings

=head1 INHERITANCE

 POSIX::1003::Locale
   is a POSIX::1003::Module

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use POSIX::1003::Locale;

  my $location = setlocale(LC_ALL, 'de'); # German
  my $info     = localeconv();            # is HASH
  print Dumper $info;  # use Data::Dumper to inspect

=head1 DESCRIPTION

See L<perllocale> for the details.

See L<documentation in the base class|POSIX::1003::Module/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

See L<documentation in the base class|POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">.
 
=over 4

=item POSIX::1003::Locale-E<gt>B<exampleValue>(NAME)

See L<POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<import>()

See L<POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">

=back

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item B<localeconv>()

Get detailed information about the current locale

  my $info     = localeconv();            # is HASH
  print Dumper $info;  # use Data::Dumper to inspect

=item B<setlocale>()

Locales describe national and language specific facts.  With
L<setlocale()|POSIX::1003::Locale/"FUNCTIONS"> you change the locale.

  my $location = setlocale(LC_ALL, 'de'); # German

=back

=head1 CONSTANTS

=head2 Constants from limits.h

  MB_LEN_MAX   Max multi-byte length of a char across all locales

=head2 Constants from locale.h

  LC_ALL LC_COLLATE LC_CTYPE LC_MESSAGES LC_MONETARY LC_NUMERIC
  LC_TIME

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of POSIX-1003 distribution version 0.98,
built on December 03, 2013. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  The code is based on L<POSIX>, which
is released with Perl itself.  See also L<POSIX::Util> for
additional functionality.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights 2011-2013 on the perl code and the related documentation
 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

