=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

POSIX::1003::Module - Base of POSIX::1003 components

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   # use the specific extensions
   # and see POSIX::Overview and POSIX::1003

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The POSIX functions and constants are provided via extensions of this
module.  This module itself only facilitates those implementations.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item POSIX::1003::Module-E<gt>B<exampleValue>($name)

Returns an example value for the NAMEd variable. Often, this is a
compile-time or runtime constant. For some extensions, like C<::Pathconf>,
that may not be the case.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<import>()

All modules provide a C<:constants> and a C<:functions> tag, sometimes
more.  The default is C<:all>, which means: everthing. You may also
specify C<:none> (of course: nothing).

When the import list is preceeded by C<+1>, the symbols will get published
into the namespace of your caller namespace, not your own namespace.

  use POSIX::1003::Pathconf;
  use POSIX::1003::Pathconf ':all';  # same
  use POSIX::1003 ':pc';             # same, for the lazy
  use POSIX::1003 ':pathconf';       # same, less lazy

  sub MyModule::import(@)   # your own tricky exporter
  {   POSIX::1003::Pathconf->import('+1', @_);
  }

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of POSIX-1003 distribution version 1.02,
built on November 10, 2020. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/CPAN>.  The code is based on L<POSIX>, which
is released with Perl itself.  See also L<POSIX::Util> for
additional functionality.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights 2011-2020 on the perl code and the related documentation
 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

