=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

POSIX::1003::OS - POSIX for the file-system

=head1 INHERITANCE

 POSIX::1003::OS
   is a POSIX::1003::Module

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use POSIX::1003::OS qw(uname TMP_MAX);
  my ($sys, $node, $rel, $version, $machine) = uname();
  print TMP_MAX;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

You may also need L<POSIX::1003::Pathconf|POSIX::1003::Pathconf>.

See L<documentation in the base class|POSIX::1003::Module/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

See L<documentation in the base class|POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">.
 
=over 4

=item POSIX::1003::OS-E<gt>B<exampleValue>(NAME)

See L<POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<import>()

See L<POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">

=back

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item B<uname>()

Get the name of current operating system.

 my ($sysname, $node, $release, $version, $machine) = uname();

Note that the actual meanings of the various fields are not
that well standardized: do not expect any great portability.
The C<$sysname> might be the name of the operating system, the
C<$nodename> might be the name of the host, the C<$release> might be
the (major) release number of the operating system, the
C<$version> might be the (minor) release number of the operating
system, and C<$machine> might be a hardware identifier.
Maybe.

=back

=head1 CONSTANTS

=head2 Constants from limits.h

 ARG_MAX       Max bytes of args + env for exec
 NGROUPS_MAX
 OPEN_MAX      Max # files that one process can have open
 TMP_MAX       Min # of unique filenames generated by tmpnam

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of POSIX-1003 distribution version 0.98,
built on December 03, 2013. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  The code is based on L<POSIX>, which
is released with Perl itself.  See also L<POSIX::Util> for
additional functionality.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights 2011-2013 on the perl code and the related documentation
 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

