=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

POSIX::1003::Pathconf - POSIX access to pathconf()

=head1 INHERITANCE

 POSIX::1003::Pathconf
   is a POSIX::1003::Module

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use POSIX::1003::Pathconf;   # import all

  use POSIX::1003::Pathconf 'pathconf';
  my $max    = pathconf($filename, '_PC_PATH_MAX');

  use POSIX::1003::Pathconf '_PC_PATH_MAX';
  my $max    = _PC_PATH_MAX($filename);

  use POSIX::1003::Pathconf qw(pathconf %pathconf);
  my $key    = $pathconf{_PC_PATH_MAX};
  $pathconf{_PC_NEW_KEY} = $value
  foreach my $name (keys %pathconf) ...

  use POSIX::1003::Pathconf qw(fpathconf);
  use POSIX::1003::FdIO     qw(openfd);
  use Fcntl                 qw(O_RDONLY);
  my $fd     = openfd $fn, O_RDONLY;
  my $max    = fpathconf $fd, '_PC_PATH_MAX';
  my $max    = _PC_PATH_MAX($fd);

  foreach my $pc (pathconf_names) ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

With C<pathconf()> you query filesystem limits for a certain existing
location.

See L<documentation in the base class|POSIX::1003::Module/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

See L<documentation in the base class|POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">.
 
=over 4

=item POSIX::1003::Pathconf-E<gt>B<exampleValue>(NAME)

See L<POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<import>()

See L<POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">

=back

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 Standard POSIX

=over 4

=item B<fpathconf>(FD, NAME)

Returns the numeric value related to the NAME or C<undef>.

=item B<pathconf>(FILENAME, NAME)

Returns the numeric value related to the NAME or C<undef>.

=back

=head2 Additional

=over 4

=item B<pathconf_names>()

Returns a list with all known names, unsorted.

=back

=head1 CONSTANTS

=over 4

=item B<%pathconf>

This exported variable is a tied HASH which maps C<_PC_*> names
on unique numbers, to be used with the system's C<pathconf()>
and C<fpathconf()> functions.

The following constants where detected on your system when the
module got installed.  The second column shows the value which
where returned for a random file at the time.

=back

=for comment
#TABLE_PATHCONF_START

  _PC_2_SYMLINKS          1       _PC_PIPE_BUF            4096
  _PC_ALLOC_SIZE_MIN      4096    _PC_PRIO_IO             undef
  _PC_ASYNC_IO            1       _PC_REC_INCR_XFER_SIZE  undef
  _PC_CHOWN_RESTRICTED    1       _PC_REC_MAX_XFER_SIZE   undef
  _PC_FILESIZEBITS        64      _PC_REC_MIN_XFER_SIZE   4096
  _PC_LINK_MAX            65000   _PC_REC_XFER_ALIGN      4096
  _PC_MAX_CANON           255     _PC_SOCK_MAXBUF         undef
  _PC_MAX_INPUT           255     _PC_SYMLINK_MAX         undef
  _PC_NAME_MAX            255     _PC_SYNC_IO             undef
  _PC_NO_TRUNC            1       _PC_VDISABLE            0
  _PC_PATH_MAX            4096    


=for comment
#TABLE_PATHCONF_END





=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of POSIX-1003 distribution version 0.98,
built on December 03, 2013. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  The code is based on L<POSIX>, which
is released with Perl itself.  See also L<POSIX::Util> for
additional functionality.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights 2011-2013 on the perl code and the related documentation
 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

