=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

POSIX::1003::Properties - POSIX access to _POSIX_ constants

=head1 INHERITANCE

 POSIX::1003::Properties
   is a POSIX::1003::Module

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use POSIX::1003::Properties;     # import all

  use POSIX::1003::Properties 'property';
  $hasnt = property('_POSIX_NO_TRUNC');

  use POSIX::1003::Properties '_POSIX_NO_TRUNC';
  $hasnt = _POSIX_NO_TRUNC;

  use POSIX::1003::Properties '%property';
  my $key = $property{_POSIX_NO_TRUNC};
  $property{_POSIX_NEW} = $value;

  foreach my $prop (property_names) ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

When you compile C/C++ programs, the header files provide you with
a long list of C<_POSIX> constants. This module pass these values
on to Perl.

See L<documentation in the base class|POSIX::1003::Module/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

See L<documentation in the base class|POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">.
 
=over 4

=item POSIX::1003::Properties-E<gt>B<exampleValue>(NAME)

See L<POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<import>()

See L<POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">

=back

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 Standard POSIX

There is no system call to retrieve these values: they are defined
in the C sources only.

=head2 Additional

=over 4

=item B<property>(NAME)

Returns the property value related to NAME.

=item B<property_names>()

Returns a list with all known names, unsorted.

=back

=head1 CONSTANTS

=over 4

=item B<%property>

This exported variable is a tie HASH which contains the
values related to the system property names.

=back

The following constants where detected on your system when the
module got installed.  The second column shows the value which
where returned at that time.

=for comment
#TABLE_PROPERTY_START

  _POSIX2_C_BIND                       200809
  _POSIX2_C_DEV                        200809
  _POSIX2_CHAR_TERM                    200809
  _POSIX2_LOCALEDEF                    200809
  _POSIX2_SW_DEV                       200809
  _POSIX2_VERSION                      200809
  _POSIX_ADVISORY_INFO                 200809
  _POSIX_AIO_LISTIO_MAX                2
  _POSIX_AIO_MAX                       1
  _POSIX_ARG_MAX                       4096
  _POSIX_ASYNC_IO                      1
  _POSIX_ASYNCHRONOUS_IO               200809
  _POSIX_BARRIERS                      200809
  _POSIX_C_SOURCE                      200809
  _POSIX_CHILD_MAX                     25
  _POSIX_CHOWN_RESTRICTED              0
  _POSIX_CLOCK_SELECTION               200809
  _POSIX_CLOCKRES_MIN                  20000000
  _POSIX_CPUTIME                       0
  _POSIX_DELAYTIMER_MAX                32
  _POSIX_FD_SETSIZE                    20
  _POSIX_FSYNC                         200809
  _POSIX_HIWAT                         512
  _POSIX_HOST_NAME_MAX                 255
  _POSIX_IPV6                          200809
  _POSIX_JOB_CONTROL                   1
  _POSIX_LINK_MAX                      8
  _POSIX_LOGIN_NAME_MAX                9
  _POSIX_MAPPED_FILES                  200809
  _POSIX_MAX_CANON                     255
  _POSIX_MAX_INPUT                     255
  _POSIX_MEMLOCK                       200809
  _POSIX_MEMLOCK_RANGE                 200809
  _POSIX_MEMORY_PROTECTION             200809
  _POSIX_MESSAGE_PASSING               200809
  _POSIX_MONOTONIC_CLOCK               0
  _POSIX_MQ_OPEN_MAX                   8
  _POSIX_MQ_PRIO_MAX                   32
  _POSIX_NAME_MAX                      14
  _POSIX_NGROUPS_MAX                   8
  _POSIX_NO_TRUNC                      1
  _POSIX_OPEN_MAX                      20
  _POSIX_PATH_MAX                      256
  _POSIX_PIPE_BUF                      512
  _POSIX_PRIORITIZED_IO                200809
  _POSIX_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING           200809
  _POSIX_QLIMIT                        1
  _POSIX_RAW_SOCKETS                   200809
  _POSIX_RE_DUP_MAX                    255
  _POSIX_READER_WRITER_LOCKS           200809
  _POSIX_REALTIME_SIGNALS              200809
  _POSIX_REENTRANT_FUNCTIONS           1
  _POSIX_REGEXP                        1
  _POSIX_RTSIG_MAX                     8
  _POSIX_SAVED_IDS                     1
  _POSIX_SEM_NSEMS_MAX                 256
  _POSIX_SEM_VALUE_MAX                 32767
  _POSIX_SEMAPHORES                    200809
  _POSIX_SHARED_MEMORY_OBJECTS         200809
  _POSIX_SHELL                         1
  _POSIX_SIGQUEUE_MAX                  32
  _POSIX_SOURCE                        1
  _POSIX_SPAWN                         200809
  _POSIX_SPIN_LOCKS                    200809
  _POSIX_SPORADIC_SERVER               -1
  _POSIX_SSIZE_MAX                     32767
  _POSIX_STREAM_MAX                    8
  _POSIX_SYMLINK_MAX                   255
  _POSIX_SYMLOOP_MAX                   8
  _POSIX_SYNCHRONIZED_IO               200809
  _POSIX_THREAD_ATTR_STACKADDR         200809
  _POSIX_THREAD_ATTR_STACKSIZE         200809
  _POSIX_THREAD_CPUTIME                0
  _POSIX_THREAD_DESTRUCTOR_ITERATIONS  4
  _POSIX_THREAD_KEYS_MAX               128
  _POSIX_THREAD_PRIO_INHERIT           200809
  _POSIX_THREAD_PRIO_PROTECT           200809
  _POSIX_THREAD_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING    200809
  _POSIX_THREAD_PROCESS_SHARED         200809
  _POSIX_THREAD_ROBUST_PRIO_INHERIT    200809
  _POSIX_THREAD_ROBUST_PRIO_PROTECT    -1
  _POSIX_THREAD_SAFE_FUNCTIONS         200809
  _POSIX_THREAD_SPORADIC_SERVER        -1
  _POSIX_THREAD_THREADS_MAX            64
  _POSIX_THREADS                       200809
  _POSIX_TIMEOUTS                      200809
  _POSIX_TIMER_MAX                     32
  _POSIX_TIMERS                        200809
  _POSIX_TRACE                         -1
  _POSIX_TRACE_EVENT_FILTER            -1
  _POSIX_TRACE_INHERIT                 -1
  _POSIX_TRACE_LOG                     -1
  _POSIX_TTY_NAME_MAX                  9
  _POSIX_TYPED_MEMORY_OBJECTS          -1
  _POSIX_TZNAME_MAX                    6
  _POSIX_UIO_MAXIOV                    16
  _POSIX_V6_LP64_OFF64                 1
  _POSIX_V6_LPBIG_OFFBIG               -1
  _POSIX_V7_LP64_OFF64                 1
  _POSIX_V7_LPBIG_OFFBIG               -1
  _POSIX_VDISABLE                      0
  _POSIX_VERSION                       200809


=for comment
#TABLE_PROPERTY_END





=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of POSIX-1003 distribution version 0.98,
built on December 03, 2013. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  The code is based on L<POSIX>, which
is released with Perl itself.  See also L<POSIX::Util> for
additional functionality.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights 2011-2013 on the perl code and the related documentation
 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

