=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

POSIX::1003::Signals - POSIX using signals

=head1 INHERITANCE

 POSIX::1003::Signals
   is a POSIX::1003::Module

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use POSIX::1003::Signals qw(:functions SIGPOLL SIGHUP);
  sigaction($signal, $action, $oldaction);
  sigpending($sigset);
  sigprocmask($how, $sigset, $oldsigset)
  sigsuspend($signal_mask);

  kill SIGPOLL//SIGHUP, $$;

  use POSIX::1003::Signals '%signals';
  my $number = $signals{SIGHUP};
  $signals{SIGNEW} = $number;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This manual page explains the access to the POSIX C<sigaction>
functions and its relatives. This module uses two helper objects:
L<POSIX::SigSet|POSIX::SigSet> and L<POSIX::SigAction|POSIX::SigAction>.

See L<documentation in the base class|POSIX::1003::Module/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

See L<documentation in the base class|POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">.
 
=over 4

=item POSIX::1003::Signals-E<gt>B<exampleValue>(NAME)

See L<POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<import>()

See L<POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">

=back

=head1 FUNCTIONS

These functions are implemened in POSIX.xs

=head2 Standard POSIX

=over 4

=item B<kill>(SIGNAL, PROCESS)

Simply L<perlfunc/kill>.

B<Be warned> the order of parameters is reversed in the C<kill>
exported by POSIX!

  CORE::kill($signal, $pid);
  ::Signals::kill($signal, $pid);
  POSIX::kill($pid, $signal);

=item B<raise>(SIGNAL)

Send a signal to the executing process.

=item B<sigaction>(SIGNAL, ACTION, [OLDACTION])

Detailed signal management.  The C<signal> must be a number (like SIGHUP),
not a string (like "SIGHUP").  The  C<action> and C<oldaction> arguments
are C<POSIX::SigAction> objects. Returns C<undef> on failure. 

If you use the C<SA_SIGINFO flag>, the signal handler will in addition to
the first argument (the signal name) also receive a second argument: a
hash reference, inside which are the following keys with the following
semantics, as defined by POSIX/SUSv3:

  signo   the signal number
  errno   the error number
  code    if this is zero or less, the signal was sent by
          a user process and the uid and pid make sense,
          otherwise the signal was sent by the kernel

The following are also defined by POSIX/SUSv3, but unfortunately
not very widely implemented:

  pid     the process id generating the signal
  uid     the uid of the process id generating the signal
  status  exit value or signal for SIGCHLD
  band    band event for SIGPOLL

A third argument is also passed to the handler, which contains a copy
of the raw binary contents of the siginfo structure: if a system has
some non-POSIX fields, this third argument is where to unpack() them
from.

Note that not all siginfo values make sense simultaneously (some are
valid only for certain signals, for example), and not all values make
sense from Perl perspective.

=item B<signal>(SIGNAL, (CODE|'IGNORE'|'DEFAULT'))

Set the CODE (subroutine reference) to be called when the SIGNAL appears.
See L<perlvar/%SIG>.

   signal(SIGINT, \&handler);
   $SIG{SIGINT} = \&handler;  # same

=item B<sigpending>(SIGSET)

Examine signals that are blocked and pending.  This uses C<POSIX::SigSet>
objects for the C<sigset> argument.  Returns C<undef> on failure.

=item B<sigprocmask>(HOW, SIGSET, [OLDSIGSET])

Change and/or examine calling process's signal mask.  This uses
C<POSIX::SigSet> objects for the C<sigset> and C<oldsigset> arguments.
Returns C<undef> on failure.

Note that you can't reliably block or unblock a signal from its own signal
handler if you're using safe signals. Other signals can be blocked or
unblocked reliably.

=item B<sigsuspend>(SIGSET)

Install a signal mask and suspend process until signal arrives.
This uses C<POSIX::SigSet> objects for the C<signal_mask> argument.
Returns C<undef> on failure.

=item B<strsignal>(SIGNAL)

Returns a string reprentation of the SIGNAL.  When the SIGNAL is unknown,
a standard string is returned (never undef)

=back

=head2 Additional

=over 4

=item B<sigaction_names>()

Returns a list with all known sigaction names, unsorted.

=item B<signal_names>()

Returns a list with all known signal names, unsorted.

=back

=head1 CONSTANTS

=over 4

=item B<%signals>

This exported variable is a (tied) HASH which maps C<SIG*> and
C<SA_*> names to their numbers.

=back

=head2 Export tag C<:signals>

The following constants are exported, shown here with the values
discovered during installation of this module:

=for comment
#TABLE_SIGNALS_START

  SIGABRT    6          SIGKILL    9          SIGTERM    15
  SIGALRM    14         SIGPIPE    13         SIGTRAP    5
  SIGBUS     7          SIGPOLL    29         SIGTSTP    20
  SIGCHLD    17         SIGPROF    27         SIGTTIN    21
  SIGCLD     17         SIGPWR     30         SIGTTOU    22
  SIGCONT    18         SIGQUIT    3          SIGURG     23
  SIGFPE     8          SIGRTMAX   64         SIGUSR1    10
  SIGHUP     1          SIGRTMIN   34         SIGUSR2    12
  SIGILL     4          SIGSEGV    11         SIGVTALRM  26
  SIGINT     2          SIGSTKFLT  16         SIGWINCH   28
  SIGIO      29         SIGSTOP    19         SIGXCPU    24
  SIGIOT     6          SIGSYS     31         SIGXFSZ    25


=for comment
#TABLE_SIGNALS_END





=head2 Export tag C<:actions>

=for comment
#TABLE_SIGACTIONS_START

  SA_NOCLDSTOP  1                 SA_ONSTACK    134217728
  SA_NOCLDWAIT  2                 SA_RESETHAND  2147483648
  SA_NODEFER    1073741824        SA_RESTART    268435456
  SA_NOMASK     1073741824        SA_SIGINFO    4


=for comment
#TABLE_SIGACTIONS_END





=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of POSIX-1003 distribution version 0.98,
built on December 03, 2013. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  The code is based on L<POSIX>, which
is released with Perl itself.  See also L<POSIX::Util> for
additional functionality.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights 2011-2013 on the perl code and the related documentation
 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

