=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

POSIX::1003::User - POSIX handling user and groups

=head1 INHERITANCE

 POSIX::1003::User
   is a POSIX::1003::Module

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use POSIX::1003::User;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

See L<documentation in the base class|POSIX::1003::Module/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

See L<documentation in the base class|POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">.
 
=over 4

=item POSIX::1003::User-E<gt>B<exampleValue>(NAME)

See L<POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<import>()

See L<POSIX::1003::Module/"METHODS">

=back

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 Standard POSIX

User and group management is provided via many functions, which are
not portable either in implementation or in availability.
See also L<http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~daw/papers/setuid-usenix02.pdf>

=head3 Get/set users

The implementation of L<setuid()|POSIX::1003::User/"Get/set users"> differs per platform.  L<seteuid()|POSIX::1003::User/"Get/set users">
is more consistent and widely available.  L<setresuid()|POSIX::1003::User/"Get/set users"> is the most
powerful, but not everywhere.  Functions which are not implemented
will return error ENOSYS.

=over 4

=item B<geteuid>()

=item B<getresuid>()

=item B<getuid>()

=item B<seteuid>(EUID)

=item B<setresuid>(RUID, EUID, SUID)

example: 

  # see also the set*uid examples above
  my @mygroups = getgroups();
  @mygroups or die $!;

  setgroups(1,2,3) or die $!;

=item B<setreuid>(RUID, EUID)

=item B<setuid>(UID)

=back

=head3 Get/set groups

The same use and limitations as the uid functions.

=over 4

=item B<getegid>()

=item B<getgid>()

=item B<getgroups>()

Returns a list of group-ids, which may (or may not) contain the effective
group-id.

=item B<getresgid>()

=item B<setegid>(EGID)

=item B<setgid>(GID)

=item B<setregid>(RGID, EGID)

=item B<setresgid>(RGID, EGID, SGID)

=back

=head3 Information about users

=over 4

=item B<getlogin>()

The username associated with the controling terminal.
Simply L<perlfunc/getlogin>

=item B<getpwent>()

Simply L<perlfunc/getpwent>

=item B<getpwnam>(USERNAME)

Simply L<perlfunc/getpwnam>

=item B<getpwuid>(USERID)

Simply L<perlfunc/getpwuid>

example: 

  my ($name, $passwd, $uid, $gid, $quota, $comment,
      $gcos, $dir, $shell, $expire) = getpwuid($uid);
  my $uid  = getpwnam($username);
  my $name = getpwuid($userid);

=back

=head3 Information about groups

=over 4

=item B<getgrent>()

Simply L<perlfunc/getgrent>

=item B<getgrgid>(GROUPID)

Simply L<perlfunc/getgrgid>

=item B<getgrnam>(GROUPNAME)

Simply L<perlfunc/getgrnam>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of POSIX-1003 distribution version 0.98,
built on December 03, 2013. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  The code is based on L<POSIX>, which
is released with Perl itself.  See also L<POSIX::Util> for
additional functionality.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights 2011-2013 on the perl code and the related documentation
 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

