# $File: //depot/libOurNet/BBS/lib/OurNet/BBS/Tutorial.pod $ $Author: autrijus $
# $Revision: #1 $ $Change: 3789 $ $DateTime: 2003/01/24 19:07:35 $

=head1 NAME

OurNet::BBS::Tutorial - Introduction to the OurNet-BBS Architecture

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Below are diagrams of typical scenarios that employs different
B<OurNet::BBS> components. In each diagrams, text in C<[square
brackets]> denotes a program, C<{curly brackets}> means a physical
storage, comments are in C<(parentheses)>, and blocks with borders
like C<+---+> indicates a class of objects.

=head2 Using OurNet to contact remote MELIX BBS

This diagram explains how the B<OurNet> backend may be used to contact
a remote server running B<bbscomd>, the I<OurNet Server>.

			 (backend)
 {Shared Memory}--. +---------------------+	 [bbscomd]
 {Hard Disk Data}-+-|OurNet::BBS::MELIX::*|           |
		    +---------+-----------+   +--------------+
			      +->(daemonize)->|OurNet::Server|
					      +--------------+
 Server-Side			                     | (xxx.yyy.zzz.www)
 ~~~(Internet)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<<<<<OurNet Protocol>>>>>~~~~~~
 Client-Side		    (backend)	             |
		   +----------------------+  +--------------+
		   |OurNet::BBS::OurNet::*|--|OurNet::Client|
		   +----------------------+  +--------------+
			        |
	   OurNet::BBS->new({bbsroot=>xxx.yyy.zzz.www})
		   +--------------------+
        [ebx]------|OurNet::BBSApp::Sync|
		   +--------------------+

=head2 Using BBSAgent to contact remote BBS Daemon

This diagram explains how the B<BBSAgent> backend may be used to contact
a remote server running B<bbsd>, a regular BBS Daemon of Melix, Maple,
Firebird, or Cola systems.

			[BBS Daemon]-+-{Shared Memory}
 Server-Side		      |      `-{Hard Disk Data}
 ~~~(Internet)~~~~~<<<<<Telnet Protocol>>>>>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 Client-Side		      |
		     +----------------+                  (include)
		     |OurNet::BBSAgent|<-{TEMPLATE.bbs}--{*/*.inc}
		     +----------------+  (=procedures)
		              |
		+------------------------+
		|OurNet::BBS::BBSAgent::*|(backend)
		+------------------------+
		              |
	    OurNet::BBS->new({bbsroot=>'TEMPLATE'})
		   +--------------------+
        [ebx]------|OurNet::BBSApp::Sync|
		   +--------------------+

=head2 The OurNet BBS Component Object Model

This diagrams explains the I<has-a> relationships between all
B<OurNet::BBS::*> objects. The first row in each box represents
how to access it from the upper-level C<tie>d object.

 [OurNet::BBS::BACKEND::BBS]->new($bbsroot, @args)...
 	  |                 
 	  |-------------|--------|--------------|-----------.
     +----------+ +----------+ +---------+ +------------+ +---------+
     | {boards} | | {groups} | | {users} | | {sessions} | | {files} |
     |BoardGroup| |GroupGroup| |UserGroup| |SessionGroup| |FileGroup|
     +----------+ +----------+ +---------+ +------------+ +---------+
          |        |   |            |              |           |
       +-----+     |+-----+        +-----------+ +-------+ +-----------+
       |{STR}|<----'|{STR}|<--.    |{STR}/[NUM]| | {STR} | |   {STR}   |
       |Board|<-----|Group|---'    |   User    | |Session| |ScalarFile*|
       +-----+      +-----+        +-----------+ +-------+ +-----------+
         ||`--------.		         |`----------.
         |`-------. `------------.       `---------. `------------.
 +------------+ +------------+ +-----------+ +------------+ +-----------+
 | {articles} | | {archives} | |  {STR}    | | {mailbox}  | |   {STR}   |
 |ArticleGroup| |ArticleGroup| |ScalarFile*| |ArticleGroup| |ScalarFile*|
 +------------+ +------------+ +-----------+ +------------+ +-----------+
       |              |`----------.
 +-----------+ +-----------+ +------------+     
 |{STR}/[NUM]| |{STR}/[NUM]| |{STR}/[NUM] |<--.
 |  Article  | |  Article  | |ArticleGroup|---'
 +-----------+ +-----------+ +------------+

Notes:

=over 4

=item *

A B<Group> or B<GroupGroup> object may contain any number of B<Group>
and/or B<Board> objects. Similarily, an B<ArticleGroup> object may
contain any number of B<ArticleGroup> (i.e. an archive directory) and/or
B<Article> objects.

=item *

B<ScalarFile> refers to the class B<OurNet::ScalarFile>, I<not>
B<OurNet::BBS::I<BACKEND>::ScalarFile>. All other classes are to be
preceded with B<OurNet::BBS::I<BACKEND>>.

=item *

The B<STR> means string hash index, B<NUM> means numeric array index,
accessible using curly and square brackets, respectively.

=back

=head1 AUTHORS

Autrijus Tang E<lt>autrijus@autrijus.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2001-2002 by Autrijus Tang E<lt>autrijus@autrijus.orgE<gt>.

This document is open document; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the Open Content License.

See L<http://opencontent.org/opl.shtml>

=cut
