package Perinci::Manual::HowTo::FunctionMetadata; # just to make podweaver happy

# AUTHORITY
# DATE
our $DIST = 'Perinci-Manual'; # DIST
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: How-to guides related to function metadata

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Perinci::Manual::HowTo::FunctionMetadata - How-to guides related to function metadata

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.008 of Perinci::Manual::HowTo::FunctionMetadata (from Perl distribution Perinci-Manual), released on 2021-10-01.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Hiding Argument

To make an argument "hidden", you can add either a C<hidden>, C<hidden-cli>, or
C<hidden-mod> to the C<tags> property. This will have the following effects:

=over

=item * L<Perinci::To::POD> (as well as its sisters like L<Perinci::To::Text>, L<Perinci::To::HTML>) will not list the argument in the generated documentation

This is for C<hidden> or C<hidden-mod> tag.

=item * L<Perinci::Sub::To::CLIDocData> (which is used by L<Perinci::CmdLine>) will not list the arguments in the CLI documentation as well as --help message

This is for C<hidden> or C<hidden-cli> tag.

=back

So with C<hidden-cli> or C<hidden-mod> you can hide arguments from CLI-only or
module POD only.

=head2 Hiding Function

To make a function "hidden", you can set C<x.no_index> attribute to true, or add
a C<hidden> tag to the C<tags> property. This will have the following effects:

=over

=item * L<Perinci::To::POD> (as well as its sisters like L<Perinci::To::Text>, L<Perinci::To::HTML>) will not list the function in the generated documentation

If you use the L<Pod::Weaver> plugin L<Pod::Weaver::Plugin::Rinci>, the
generated POD documentation for your module will also skip the function, making
the function undocumented in the POD.

=item * L<Perinci::Access::Schemeless>, L<Perinci::Access::Perl>, as well as other C<Perinci::Access::*> modules which uses the former (like L<Perinci::Access::HTTP::Server>) will not list the function

When you issue a C<list> CL<Riap> request to one of these modules, the function
will not be listed in the package it is in.

=back

Keywords: undocumented, documentation

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Perinci-Manual>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Perinci-Manual>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

More specific how-to guides can be found in
C<Perinci::Manual::HowTo::FunctionMetadata::XXX>, e.g.
L<Perinci::Manual::HowTo::FunctionMetadata::Examples>

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTING


To contribute, you can send patches by email/via RT, or send pull requests on
GitHub.

Most of the time, you don't need to build the distribution yourself. You can
simply modify the code, then test via:

 % prove -l

If you want to build the distribution (e.g. to try to install it locally on your
system), you can install L<Dist::Zilla>,
L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>, and sometimes one or two other
Dist::Zilla plugin and/or Pod::Weaver::Plugin. Any additional steps required
beyond that are considered a bug and can be reported to me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2021 by perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Perinci-Manual>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
