=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Catalyst::Manual::Deployment - Deploying Catalyst

=head1 DEPLOYMENT OPTIONS

Catalyst applications are most often deployed as a FastCGI or mod_perl
application (with FastCGI being the recommended option). However, as
Catalyst is based on the L<PSGI> specification, any web handler
implementing that specification can be used to run Catalyst
applications.

This documentation most thoroughly covers the normal and traditional deployment
options, but will mention alternate methods of deployment, and we welcome
additional documentation from people deploying Catalyst in non-standard
environments.

=head2 Deployment in a shared hosting environment

Almost all shared hosting environments involve deploying Catalyst as a
FastCGI application on Apache. You will usually want to have a set of
libraries specific to your application installed on your shared host.

Full details of deploying Catalyst in a shared hosting environment are at
L<Catalyst::Manual::Deployment::SharedHosting>.

=head2 FastCGI

FastCGI is the most common Catalyst deployment option. It is documented
generally in L<Catalyst::Manual::Deployment::FastCGI>, and there are specific
instructions for using FastCGI with common web servers below:

=head3 Apache

L<Catalyst::Manual::Deployment::Apache::FastCGI>

=head3 nginx

L<Catalyst::Manual::Deployment::nginx::FastCGI>

=head3 lighttpd

L<Catalyst::Manual::Deployment::lighttpd::FastCGI>

=head3 Microsoft IIS

L<Catalyst::Manual::Deployment::IIS::FastCGI>

=head2 mod_perl

Traditionally a common deployment option for dedicated applications,
mod_perl has some advantages and disadvantages over FastCGI. Use of
mod_perl is documented in
L<Catalyst::Manual::Deployment::Apache::mod_perl>.

=head2 Development Server

It is possible to deploy the Catalyst development server behind a
reverse proxy. This may work well for small-scale applications which are
in an early development phase, but which you want to be able to show to
people. See L<Catalyst::Manual::Deployment::DevelopmentServer>.

=head2 PSGI

Catalyst can be deployed with any PSGI-compliant handler. See L<Catalyst::PSGI>
for more information; a list of possible deployment servers are shown
below:

=head3 Starman

L<Starman> is a high-performance Perl server implementation, which is designed
to be used directly (rather than behind a reverse proxy). It includes HTTP/1.1
support, chunked requests and responses, keep-alive, and pipeline requests.

=head3 Starlet

Starlet is a standalone HTTP/1.0 server with keep‐alive support which is
suitable for running HTTP application servers behind a reverse proxy.

=head3 Twiggy

L<Twiggy> is a high-performance asynchronous web server. It can be used
in conjunction with Catalyst, but there are a number of caveats which
mean that it is not suitable for most deployments.

=head2 Chef

L<Chef|http://www.opscode.com/chef/> is an open-source systems integration
framework built specifically for automating cloud computing deployments. A
Cookbooks demonstrating how to deploy a Catalyst application using Chef is
available at L<http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/catalyst> and
L<http://github.com/melezhik/cookbooks/wiki/Catalyst-cookbook-intro>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Catalyst Contributors, see Catalyst.pm

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This library is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

