=head1 NAME

Catalyst::Manual::DevelopmentProcess - Administrative structure of the Catalyst Development Process

=head1 Contributing to Catalyst

The main philosophy behind Catalyst development can be summarized as:

    Patches welcome!

Everyone is welcome (and will be encouraged) to contribute to Catalyst
in whatever capacity they're able to. People in #catalyst-dev will be
more than happy to talk newcomers through contributing their first patch,
or how best to go about their first CPAN extension module....

=head1 Catalyst development

=head2 Discussing proposed bugfixes or improvements

L<http://wiki.catalystframework.org/wiki/#Community> has information about how
to get in touch with the Catalyst "community".  In particular, you would
want to discuss a proposed change on the mailing list:

    http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/catalyst-dev

or on IRC:

    irc://irc.perl.org/catalyst-dev
    http://wiki.catalystframework.org/wiki/livegroups

Usually, the core team will be more than happy for you to contribute, and
will talk you through how to submit a patch, or get a "commit bit".

=head2 Repositories

The Catalyst git repository can be found at:

    read: git://git.shadowcat.co.uk/catagits/PROJECTNAME
    write: catagits@git.shadowcat.co.uk:PROJECTNAME
    browser: https://git.shadowcat.co.uk/gitweb/gitweb.cgi

The Catalyst subversion repository can be found at:

    svn: http://dev.catalyst.perl.org/repos/Catalyst
    browser: http://dev.catalyst.perl.org/svnweb/Catalyst

=head2 Schedule

There is no dated release cycle for Catalyst. New releases will be made
when sufficient small fixes have accumulated; or an important bugfix, or
significant feature addition, is completed.

=head2 Roadmap for features

The Catalyst Roadmap is kept at
L<http://git.shadowcat.co.uk/gitweb/gitweb.cgi?p=catagits/Catalyst-Runtime.git;a=blob_plain;f=lib/Catalyst/ROADMAP.pod;hb=master>

=head2 Bug list

The TODO list with known bugs / deficiencies is kept at
L<http://git.shadowcat.co.uk/gitweb/gitweb.cgi?p=catagits/Catalyst-Runtime.git;a=blob_plain;f=TODO;hb=master>

=head1 The Catalyst Core Team

The intention of the Catalyst Core Team is to maintain and support the
Catalyst framework, in order for it to be a viable and stable framework
for developing web-based MVC applications. This includes both technical
decisions about the Catalyst core distribution, and public relations
relating to the Catalyst framework as a whole.

The current goals of the Catalyst core development team are stability,
performance, and a properly paced addition of features, with a focus on
extensibility.

The core team is concerned with the 'core' Catalyst distributions
(i.e. L<Catalyst::Runtime>, L<Catalyst::Devel> and L<Catalyst::Manual>),
and also tries to encourage best practices for extension authors, and
cooperation and shared vision within the Catalyst community.

=head2 Membership

The Catalyst Core Team consists of the developers who have full commit
privileges to the entire Catalyst source tree, and who have made a significant
contribution to the core Catalyst distributions, and various extensions and
plugins.

In addition, the core team includes members that have non-technical
roles, such as marketing, legal, or economic responsibilities.

Currently, the Core Team consists of the following people:

=over 4

=item Brian Cassidy

=item Andy Grundman

=item Christian Hansen

=item Yuval Kogman

=item Marcus Ramberg

=item Jonathan Rockway

=item Jesse Sheidlower

=item Matt S. Trout

=item Florian Ragwitz

=item Tomas Doran

=back

New members of the Core Team must be accepted by a 2/3 majority by the
current members.

=head2 Technical Decisions.

Any change to the Catalyst core which can not be conceived as a
correction of an error in the current feature set will need to be
accepted by at least 3 members of the Core Team before it can be
committed to master (which is the basis for CPAN releases). Anyone
with access is at any time free to make a branch to develop a proof of
concept for a feature to be committed to master.

=head2 Organizational and Philosophical Decisions.

Any organizational or philosophical decision should be decided by
majority vote. Thus it should be a goal of the organization that its
membership number should at any time be an odd number, to render it
effective with regards to decision making. The exceptions to this rule
are changes to this charter and additions to the membership of the Core
Team, which require a 2/3 majority.

=head2 CPAN Releases

Planned releases to CPAN should be performed by the release manager, at
the time of writing Marcus Ramberg, or the deputy release manager, at
the time of writing Florian Ragwitz. In the case of critical error
correction, any member of the Core Team can perform a rescue release.

=head2 Public statements from the Core Team

The Core Team should strive to appear publicly as a group when answering
questions or other correspondence. In cases where this is not possible,
the same order as for CPAN releases applies.

=head2 New Catalyst Extensions

As Catalyst is deliberately designed for extension, there is an ecosystem of
several hundred Catalyst extensions that can be found on CPAN.

See L<Catalyst::Manual::ExtendingCatalyst> for more information on how
to extend Catalyst in various ways and how to write CPANable components
for Catalyst which can be reused in many applications.

It is recommended to post a request for comments to the Catalyst mailing
list, or ask around in the #catalyst IRC channel before starting to
implement something, as another member of the community is likely to
have example or prototype code that you can reuse, and members of the
community and core team are happy to advise on the best way to implement
a generic solution to a particular problem.

This could save you duplicate work, and will help you produce a better
thought out and designed extension.

=head1 AUTHORS

Catalyst Contributors, see Catalyst.pm

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This library is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

