=head1 NAME
 
Rapi::Blog::Manual::Scaffolds - Public-facing content for Rapi::Blog 
 
=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Rapi::Blog> serves public facing content from a local "scaffold" which is a simple directory
of HTML and associated content, mounted at the root (C</>) of the app. The other, backend namespaces 
for the various controllers/modules are merged into the common root-based namespace. This design allows
for the scaffolds to be structured as an ordinary HTML site following the same conventions as a static
site living in a folder on your PC. The only difference between a Rapi::Blog scaffold and a static HTML
directory is that files within the scaffold are able to *optionally* call template directives for
dynamic content via simple variable substitution. 

Scaffolds may also define an additional config which declares details about how it can be used by 
the backend. See below.

=head1 SCAFFOLD CONFIG

The scaffold config is defined in a YAML text file named B<scaffold.yml> in the root of the scaffold 
directory.

The B<scaffold.yml> supports the following options:

=head2 static_paths

List of path prefixes which are considered 'static' meaning no template processing will happen on
those paths. You want to list asset/image dirs like 'css/', 'fonts/' etc in this param, which
helps performance for paths which the system doesn't need to parse for template directives.

=head2 private_paths

List of path prefixes which will not be served publicly, but will still be available internally
to include, use as a wrapper, etc. Note that this option isn't really about security but about cleaning
the public namespace of paths which are known not to be able to render as stand-alone pages in that
context (like snippets, block directives, etc etc)

=head2 landing_page

Path/template to render when a user lands on the home page at C<'/'> (or the URL the app is mounted on)

=head2 not_found

Path/template to render when a requested path is not found (404). This provides a mechanism to have
branded 404 pages. If not specified, a default/plain 404 page is used.

=head2 favicon

Path to the favicon to use for the site.

=head2 view_wrappers

The C<view_wrappers> are what expose Posts in the database to public URLs. The view_wrappers are 
supplied as a list of HashRefs defining the config of an individual view_wrapper. For example:

  view_wrappers:
    - { path: post/,  type: include, wrapper: private/post.html  }

For typical setups, only one view_wrapper is needed, but you can setup as many as you choose.

Each C<'view_wrapper'> config requires the following three params:

=head3 path

The path prefix to be exposed. The Post name is appended to this path to produce a valid URL for the
given Post. Using the above example, a Post named C<'my-cool-post'> would be accessible at the public
URL C<'/post/my-cool-post'>.

=head3 wrapper

The scaffold template to use when rendering the Post. This should be a TT template which has been 
setup as a L<WRAPPER|https://metacpan.org/pod/Template#WRAPPER> with a the Post body content loaded
in C<[% content %]>. The given Post row object will also be available as C<[% Post %]>.

=head3 type

Must be either C<'insert'> or C<'include'> to control which TT directive is used internally to
load the Post into the C<[% content %]> in the wrapper. With C<'include'> (default) the content of 
the template, along with its template directives, is processed in advance and then populated into
the C<[% content %]> variable, while with C<'insert'> the content is inserted as-is, leaving any 
directives to be processed in the scope of the wrapper. You shouldn't need to use C<'insert'> 
unless you have a specific reason and know what you are doing.

=head2 default_view_path

The default C<'view_wrapper'>, identified by its configured C<path>, to use for accessing posts. This
is used in locations where the system generates URLs when it needs to publicly link to a post. Defaults
to the first C<'include'> type view_wrapper.

=head2 preview_path

Optional alternative path to use instead of C<default_view_path> for the purpose of rendering a "preview"
of the post as it will display on the site. This preview is presented in an iframe on the "Publish Preview"
tab on the internal Post row page. This is useful in case you want to use a different wrapper that excludes
items like top navigation, sidebars, etc, and display just the post itself with the active styles on the 
site. It is totally optional, and for some cases you may prefer using the same exact view as the public
site to be able to really see exactly how the post will look. This would be one of the common a cases 
for a second C<'view_wrapper'> to be defined.

=head2 internal_post_path

The one, "real" URL path used to access Posts *internally*. This is used by the view_wrappers internally
to resolve the Post from the supplied URL. Defaults to C<'private/post/'> which shouldn't normally need
to be changed. It is suggested that it be within a private (i.e. covered by C<'private_paths'>) namespace.

=head2 default_ext

Default file extension for scaffold templates, defaults to C<html>. This makes it so that the template
C<'/path/to/doc.html'> can alternatively be accessed at C<'/path/to/doc'> for cleaner/nicer looking URLs


=back

You may also define any additional datapoints you like in the scaffold config which can be used by the
scaffold templates internally.


=head1 TEMPLATE DIRECTIVES

Files within the scaffold (which are not defined as C<static_paths>) are processed as L<Template::Toolkit>
templates with the following methods/parameters exposed in the template variables (i.e. the L<Template::Stash>):

=head2 scaffold

The active scaffold config/data structure.

=head2 list_posts

Interface to retrieve and filter Posts from the database. This is exposed with the 
L<ListAPI|Rapi::Blog::DB::Component::ResultSet::ListAPI>
interface which accepts several named params and returns a common
L<ListAPI|Rapi::Blog::DB::Component::ResultSet::ListAPI> result packet.

Accepted params (all optional):

=head3 search

String to search/filter results. The search will match substrings in the C<body>, C<name>, C<title>,
C<summary>, C<body> and exact match on a C<tag>. Only Posts with at least one match will be returned.

=head3 tag

Limit posts to those containing the named C<tag>.

=head3 limit

The maximum number of results to return (i.e. page size)

=head3 page

The page number to return, in conjunction with C<limit>.

=head3 sort

Sort keyword for the order posts are returned in. Currently supports 3 possible values (defaults to
C<newest>)

=head4 newest

Newest (by Post Date/Time) Posts first

=head4 popularity

Posts with the most "Hits" first. Note that in order for a hit to be recorded, the scaffold must
call the template directive C<[% Post.record_hit %]>.

=head4 most_comments

Posts with the most comments (includes sub-comments/replies) first

=head2 list_tags

Interface to retrieve and filter Tags from the database. This is exposed with the 
L<ListAPI|Rapi::Blog::DB::Component::ResultSet::ListAPI>
interface which accepts several named params and returns a common
L<ListAPI|Rapi::Blog::DB::Component::ResultSet::ListAPI> result packet.

Accepted params (all optional):

=head3 search

String to search/filter results. The search will match substrings of the tag name.

=head3 post_id

Limit results to Tags linked to the supplied post_id

=head3 sort

Sort keyword for the order tags are returned in. Currently supports 3 possible values (defaults to
C<popularity>)

=head4 popularity

Most popular tags by number of posts which use them.

=head4 alphabetical

Tags in alphabetical order.

=head4 recent

Most recently used (according to Post Date/Time) tags first.

=head2 list_users

Interface to retrieve and filter Users from the database. This is exposed with the 
L<ListAPI|Rapi::Blog::DB::Component::ResultSet::ListAPI>
interface which accepts several named params and returns a common
L<ListAPI|Rapi::Blog::DB::Component::ResultSet::ListAPI> result packet.

Accepted params (all optional):

=head3 search

String to search/filter results. The search will match substrings of the C<username> or the C<full_name>.

=head3 only

Limit users to those with the matching named permission, which are currently 'authors' or 'commenters'

=head2 User

The currently logged in user, or C<undef> if not logged in. Returns a L<Rapi::Blog::DB::Result::User> object.

=head2 request_path

The path of the current request

=head2 remote_action_path

URL path that a client can use to access the L<Remote|Rapi::Blog::Controller::Remote> controller which
provides additional API end-points that can be used to post comments, etc.

=head2 add_post_path

URL path to directly load the "New Post" form. Useful if the scaffold wants to provide its own 
"New Post" links(s).

=head2 Post

When the target template of the request is a Post, including requests dispatched via a C<view_wrapper>,
C<'Post'> template variable will also be available. This will be a reference to the associated Post Row object
(see L<Rapi::Blog::DB::Result::Post>). For non-post requests (i.e. requests to ordinary templates within
the scaffold) this value will be undef.

=head1 PRIVILEGED TEMPLATE DIRECTIVES

Both scaffold templates as well as post templates are able to access the above template 
directives/attributes, however, additional privileged directives are available to scaffold templates
only (excludes view_wrappers which are processed in the role of a post)

=head2 c

A reference to the Catalyst context object for the current request. This provides an entrypoint to 
the entire application which can be used to perform actions based on the query string params 
(e.g. C<[% c.req.params.foo %]>, direct access to the database 
(e.g. C<[% c.model('DB::Post').search_rs(...) %]>) or anything else which can be reached via the context.



=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item *

L<Rapi::Blog>

=item *

L<Rapi::Blog::Manual>

=item *

L<RapidApp>

=back
 
=cut
