package Perinci::Manual::Reference::FunctionMetadata::PropertyAttributeIndex; # just to make podweaver happy

# AUTHORITY
# DATE
our $DIST = 'Perinci-Manual'; # DIST
# VERSION

1;
# ABSTRACT: Alphabetical list of properties/attributes used in Rinci function metadata

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Perinci::Manual::Reference::FunctionMetadata::PropertyAttributeIndex - Alphabetical list of properties/attributes used in Rinci function metadata

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.010 of Perinci::Manual::Reference::FunctionMetadata::PropertyAttributeIndex (from Perl distribution Perinci-Manual), released on 2022-07-22.

=head1 INDEX

=head2 args_as

L<Rinci> standard. See: L<Rinci::function>.

=head2 args

L<Rinci> standard. See: L<Rinci::function>.

=head2 cmdline.chomp

Observed by L<Perinci::CmdLine::Base>.

=head2 cmdline.default_format

Since 2014-03-27.

Set default output format for CLI if not specified by user via C<--format>
command-line options. Observed by L<Perinci::CmdLine::Base>.

Example usage: L<Data::Unixish>, L<Perinci::CmdLine::Base>.

=head2 cmdline.exit_code

Exit code to use Observed by L<Perinci::CmdLine::Base>. By default exit code to
use in CLI is derived from enveloped result's status (first element)

Example usage: lots of CLI applications, e.g. L<App::ppgrep> and many others.

=head2 cmdline.page_result

Observed by L<Perinci::CmdLine::Base>.

=head2 cmdline.view_result

Observed by L<Perinci::CmdLine::Base>.

=head2 cmdline.viewer

Observed by L<Perinci::CmdLine::Base>.

=head2 cmdline.result

Result to display instead of enveloped result's payload (the third element),
when on CLI. Observed by L<Perinci::CmdLine::Base>.

=head2 cmdline.result.interactive

Result to display instead of enveloped result's payload (the third element),
when on CLI and interactive mdoe. Takes precedence over L</cmdline.result>.
Observed by L<Perinci::CmdLine::Base>.

See also: L<cmdline.result.noninteractive>.

=head2 cmdline.result.noninteractive

Result to display instead of enveloped result's payload (the third element),
when on CLI and non-interactive mdoe. Takes precedence over L</cmdline.result>.
Observed by L<Perinci::CmdLine::Base>.

See also: L<cmdline.result.interactive>.

=head2 deps

Hash. L<Rinci> standard. See: L<Rinci::function>.

=head2 examples

Array of function example entries. L<Rinci> standard. See: L<Rinci::function>.

See also:
L<Perinci::Manual::Reference::FunctionMetadata::Examples::PropertyAttributeIndex>.

=head2 features

L<Rinci> standard. See: L<Rinci::function>.

=head2 form.*

2015-09-22.

Observed by L<Borang> and C<Borang::*>.

=head2 is_class

Bool. L<Rinci> standard. See: L<Rinci::function>.

=head2 is_func

Bool. L<Rinci> standard. See: L<Rinci::function>.

=head2 is_meth

Bool. L<Rinci> standard. See: L<Rinci::function>.

=head2 is_class_meth

Bool. L<Rinci> standard. See: L<Rinci::function>.

=head2 result

Any. L<Rinci> standard. See: L<Rinci::function>.

=head2 x.app.rimetadb.exclude

2019-08-14.

Bool. Observed by L<App::rimetadb> to allow excluding a function from being
included in the database.

See also:
L<Perinci::Manual::Reference::FunctionMetadata::Arguments::PropertyAttributeIndex/"x.app.rimetadb.exclude">
(per-function argument exclude setting).

=head2 x.dist.zilla.plugin.rinci.wrap.wrap_args

2014-03-27.

Bool. Observed by L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin:Rinci::Wrap>.

=head2 x.dynamic_generator_modules

2015-07-15.

Array. Observed by L<Perinci::Sub::Gen::AccessTable>, L<Perinci::CmdLine::Lite>.
The original goal is to be able to show the version of module that generates
this function/function metadata in CLI via C<--version>, and to check via
C<--check-version>.

=head2 x.envs

Hash of defhashes. List of environment variables observed by the function. Hash
key is the environment variable name, hash value is a defhash similar to
function argument specification.

Currently observed by L<Perinci::CmdLine::POD>. Will be observed by
L<Perinci::To::Doc> also.

Example:

 # from App::orgadb
 'x.envs' => {
     'ORGADB_COLOR_THEME' => {
         summary => 'Set default color theme',
         schema => 'perl::colortheme::modname_with_optional_args*',
         description => <<'_',

 Color theme is Perl module name under the `ColorTheme::Search::` namespace,
 without the namespace prefix. The default is `Light`. You can set color theme
 using the `--color-theme` command-line option as well as this environment
 variable.

 _
     },
 }

=head2 x.doc.faq

String (Markdown format).

=head2 x.inline_generator_modules

2015-07-15.

Reserved but not yet observed. The idea is, if a module generates
function/function metadata as inline and not dynamically, we don't have to show
the module's version in C<--version>.

=head2 x.no_index

Observed by L<Perinci::To::Doc>, to avoid the function from being documented.
Note that we can also use the C<hidden> tag for this.

=head2 x.perinci.cmdline.base.exit_code

Observed by L<Perinci::CmdLine::Base>.

=head2 x.perinci.cmdline.base.exit_code

Observed by L<Perinci::CmdLine::Base>.

=head2 x.perinci.sub.wrapper.disable_validate_args

Observed by L<Perinci::Sub::Wrapper>.

Example usage: XXX.

=head2 x.perinci.sub.wrapper.disable_validate_result

Observed by L<Perinci::Sub::Wrapper>.

Example usage: XXX.

=head2 x.perinci.sub.wrapper.logs

2014-03-27.

Observed by L<Perinci::Sub::Wrapper>.

Example usage: XXX.

=head2 x.perinci.sub.wrapper.logs

Observed by L<Perinci::Sub::Wrapper>.

Example usage: XXX.

=head1 INDEX (DEPRECATED)

=head2 x.schema.entity

2014-03-27. First used in Spanel project. Deprecated on 2019-07-03.

Observed by L<Perinci::Sub::ArgEntity> and C<Perinci::Sub::ArgEntity::*>.

=head2 x.schema.entity_id_arg

2014-03-27. First used in Spanel project.

Observed by L<Perinci::Sub::ArgEntity> and C<Perinci::Sub::ArgEntity::*>.

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Perinci-Manual>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Perinci-Manual>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Other C<Perinci::Manual::Reference::**::PropertyAttributeIndex> pages.

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTING


To contribute, you can send patches by email/via RT, or send pull requests on
GitHub.

Most of the time, you don't need to build the distribution yourself. You can
simply modify the code, then test via:

 % prove -l

If you want to build the distribution (e.g. to try to install it locally on your
system), you can install L<Dist::Zilla>,
L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>, and sometimes one or two other
Dist::Zilla plugin and/or Pod::Weaver::Plugin. Any additional steps required
beyond that are considered a bug and can be reported to me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2022, 2021 by perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Perinci-Manual>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
