=head1 NAME

Apache2::Translation - Configuring Apache dynamically

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  LoadModule perl_module /path/to/mod_perl.so
  PerlLoadModule Apache2::Translation
  PerlTransHandler Apache2::Translation
  PerlMapToStorageHandler Apache2::Translation
  TranslationEvalCache 1000
  TranslationKey MyKey
  <TranslationProvider DB>
      Database  dbi:mysql:dbname:host
      User      username
      Password  password
      Singleton 1
      Table     tablename
      Key       keycolumn
      Uri       uricolumn
      Block     blockcolumn
      Order     ordercolumn
      Action    actioncolumn
      Cachetbl  cachetablename
      Cachecol  cachecolumn
      Cachesize 1000
  </TranslationProvider>

  # another provider
  <TranslationProvider File>
      Configfile /path/to/config
  </TranslationProvider>

  # export our provider parameters
  <Location /config>
    SetHandler modperl
    PerlResponseHandler Apache2::Translation::Config
  </Location>

  # configuring the WEB interface
  PerlModule Apache2::Translation::Admin
  <Location /-/transadm/>
    SetHandler modperl
    PerlResponseHandler Apache2::Translation::Admin
  </Location>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

As the name implies C<Apache2::Translation> lives mostly in the URI Translation
Phase. It is somehow similar to C<mod_rewrite> but configuration
statements are read at runtime, thus, allowing to reconfigure
a server without restarting it.

The actual configuration statements are read by means of a
I<Translation Provider>, a Perl class offering
a particular interface, see below. Currently there are 3 providers
implemented, L<Apache2::Translation::DB>, L<Apache2::Translation::BDB>,
and L<Apache2::Translation::File>.

There is also a WEB interface (L<Apache2::Translation::Admin>).

=head2 B<An Example>

Let's begin with an example. Given some database table:

 id  key    uri      blk ord action
  1  front  :PRE:    0   0   Cond: $HOSTNAME !~ /^(?:www\.)xyz\.(?:com|de)$/
  2  front  :PRE:    0   1   Redirect: 'http://xyz.com'.$URI, 301
  3  front  :PRE:    1   0   Do: $CTX{lang}='en'
  4  front  :PRE:    1   1   Cond: $HOSTNAME =~ /de$/
  5  front  :PRE:    1   2   Do: $CTX{lang}='de'
  6  front  /static  0   0   File: $DOCROOT.'/'.$CTX{lang}.$MATCHED_PATH_INFO
  7  front  /appl1   0   0   Proxy: 'http://backend/'.$CTX{lang}.$URI
  8  front  /appl2   0   0   Proxy: 'http://backend/'.$URI.'?l='.$CTX{lang}
  9  front  /        0   0   Config: ['AuthName "secret"'], ['AuthType Basic']
 10  back   :PRE:    0   0   Cond: $r->connection->remote_ip ne '127.0.0.1'
 11  back   :PRE:    0   1   Error: 403, 'Forbidden by Apache2::Translation(11)'
 12  back   /appl1   0   0   PerlHandler: 'My::Application1'
 13  back   /appl2   0   0   PerlHandler: 'My::Application2'

The C<id> column in this table is not really necessary for
C<Apache2::Translation>. But if you want to deploy
L<Apache2::Translation::Admin> you need it.

Well, here we have a frontend/backend configuration. The frontend records
are labeled with the key C<front>, the backend records with C<back>.

When a request comes in first the records with C<:PRE:> in the C<uri>-field are
examined. Suppose, a request for C<http://abc.com/static/img.png>
comes in. Record 1 (id=1) checks the C<Host> header. The expression
after C<Cond:> is evaluated as Perl code. It obviously returns true.
C<Cond> stands for I<condition>. But how does it affect the further
workflow? Here C<blk> and C<ord> come in. All records with the same
C<key>, C<uri> and C<blk> form a B<block>. C<ord> gives an order within
this block. Within a block all actions are executed up to the first
condition that is false.

Now, because our condition in record 1 is true the action in record 2
(within the same block) is executed. It redirects the browser with a
HTTP code of 301 (MOVED PERMANENTLY) to C<http://xyz.com/static/img.png>.

When the redirected request comes back the condition in record 1 is
false. Hence, the next block (key=front, uri=:PRE:, blk=1) is evaluated.
First a C<lang> member of a context hash is set to C<en>. A C<Do> action
is similar to a condition, only its value is ignored. Record 4 then
checks if the C<Host> header matches C</de$/>. If so, then record 5 sets
the I<language> to C<de>.

Now, the records labeled with C<:PRE:> are finished. The handler starts
looking for blocks labeled with the request uri. That is, it looks
for a block with key=front, uri=/static/img.png. None is found.

Then it cuts off the last part of the uri (/img.png), repeats the
lookup and finds record 6. The C<File> action sets C<$r-E<gt>filename> to
C<$DOCROOT/en/img.png>. C<Apache2::Translation> provides some convenience
variables. They are tied to members of the request record.
C<$MATCHED_PATH_INFO> contains the uri part cut off
(C</img.png>). More on them below.

Now another round is started and the next uri part is cut off. Record 9
matches. We see a C<Config> action that sets C<AuthName> and C<AuthType>.

At the end the translation handler checks if C<$r-E<gt>filename> was set and
returns C<Apache2::Const::OK> or C<Apache2::Const::DECLINED> respectively.

I think that example gives a general idea, what C<Apache2::Translation>
does.

=head2 B<Processing States>

Internally C<Apache2::Translation> is implemented as a state machine. It
starts in the I<START> state, where some variables are initialized. From
there it shifts immediately to the I<PREPOC> state. Here all C<:PRE:>
rules are evaluated. From I<PREPROC> it shifts to I<PROC>. Now the rules
with real uris are examined. When the I<DONE> state is reached processing is
finished.

There is a special state named I<LOOKUPFILE>. It is only used for subrequests
that don't have an URI. For such requests the URI translation phase of the
request cycle is skipped. Hence a I<PerlTransHandler> would never be called.
Such requests are results of calling C<$r-E<gt>lookup_file> for example.

To catch also such requests install C<Apache2::Translation> both as
I<PerlTransHandler> as well as I<PerlMapToStorageHandler>. Then if such a
subrequest occures the handler enters the I<LOOKLUPFILE> state instead of
I<PREPROC>. From I<LOOKLUPFILE> it normally shifts to I<PROC> unless it
executes a C<Restart> action. In that case it shifts to I<PREPROC>.

You have to set C<$MATCHED_URI> to some initial value if you want to hop
through the I<PROC> phase. A still empty C<$MATCHED_URI> shifts from I<PROC>
immediately to I<DONE>.

B<Note>: The I<LOOKUPFILE> stuff is still somewhat experimental.

You can control the current state by means of the C<State>, C<Done> and
C<Restart> actions.

=head2 B<Blocks and Lists of Blocks>

Above, we have defined a B<block> as all records with the same
C<key>, C<uri> and C<block>. The actions within a block are ordered by
the C<order> field.

A B<list of blocks> is then an ordered list of all blocks with the same
C<key> and C<uri>. The order is given by the C<block> number.

=head2 B<Actions>

An action starts with a key word optionally followed by a colon and
some arguments. The key words are case insensitive.

C<Apache2::Translation> provides some environment for code snippets in
actions. They are compiled into perl functions. The compiled result is
cached. 2 variables, C<$r> and C<%CTX>, are provided plus a few
convenience variables. C<$r> is the current C<Apache2::RequestRec>.
C<%CTX> is a hash that can be used to store arbitrary data. This hash
is not used by Apache2::Translation itself. It can be used to pass data
between actions. But note, the hash is localized to the translation handler.
So, it cannot be used to pass data between different phases of the
apache request cycle. Use C<$r-E<gt>notes> or C<$r-E<gt>pnotes> for that.


=over 4

=item B<Do: perl_code>

=item B<Fixup: perl_code>

C<Do> is the simplest action. The Perl code is evaluated in scalar context.
The return value is ignored. C<Fixup> is just the same save it is run in the
I<Fixup> phase

=item B<Cond: perl_code>

This is almost the same as C<Do>. The return value is taken as boolean.
If it is false, the current block is finished. Processing continues
with the next block.

=item B<Done>

C<Done> finishes the current block list and transfers control to the next state.
That means if encountered in I<PREPROC> state it switches to I<PROC>. If the
current state is I<PROC> then the translation handler ends here.

This action is a combination of C<State: next_state> and C<Last>, see below.

Don't try to use C<Done> to return from a subroutine. Use C<Last> instead.

=item B<File: string>

This action sets C<$r-E<gt>filename> to string. It is equivalent to

 Do: $FILENAME=do{ string }

=item B<Doc: ?content_type?, string>

C<string> is evaluated as well as C<content_type> if given. Then a special
C<moperl> handler is installed that simply sets the given content type and
prints out the string to the client. C<content_type> is C<text/plain> if
omitted.

=item B<Proxy: ?url?>

This tells Apache to forward the request to C<url> as a proxy. C<url> is
optional. If ommitted C<$r-E<gt>unparsed_uri> is used. That means Apache
must be used as a proxy by the browser.

=item B<CgiScript: ?string?>

is equivalent to

 Do: $r->handler( 'cgi-script' );
 FixupConfig: ['Options ExecCGI']

If C<string> is given it is evaluated and the result is assigned to
C<$r-E<gt>filename>.

=item B<PerlScript: ?string?>

is equivalent to

 Do: $r->handler( 'perl-script' );
 FixupConfig: ['Options ExecCGI'], ['PerlOptions +ParseHeaders']

If C<string> is given it is evaluated and the result is assigned to
C<$r-E<gt>filename>.

=item B<PerlHandler: string>

In short this action tries to figure out what C<string> means and calls it
as C<modperl> handler.

In detail it installs a C<Apache2::Translation::response> as
C<PerlResponseHandler>. When called the handler evaluates C<string> which
results either in a subroutine name, a package name, a subroutine reference
or an object or class that implements the C<handler> method. If a package
name is given it must implement a C<handler> subroutine.

If the given package is not yet loaded it is C<require>ed.

Then the resulting subroutine or method is called and C<$r> is passed.

Further, a C<PerlMapToStorageHandler> is installed that skips the handling
of C<Directory> containers and C<.htaccess> files. If not set, this
handler also sets C<path_info>. Assumed,

 #uri        blk ord action
 /some/path  0   0   PerlHandler: ...

and a request comes in for C</some/path/foo/bar>. Then C<path_info> is set
to C</foo/bar>.

=item B<Config: list_of_strings_or_arrays>

=item B<FixupConfig: list_of_strings_or_arrays>

Surprisingly, these are the most complex actions of all.

C<Config> adds Apache configuration directives to the request in the
I<Map To Storage> phase B<before> the default C<MapToStorage> handler. Think of
it as a kind of C<.htaccess>. C<FixupConfig> does the same in the I<Fixup>
phase. While C<Config> is used quite often C<FixupConfig> is seldom required.
It is used mainly to mend configurations that are spoiled by the default
C<MapToStorage> handler.

Arguments to both actions are strings or arrays of one or two elements:

 Config: 'AuthName "secret"',
         ['AuthType Basic'],
         ['ProxyPassReverse http://...', '/path']

To understand the different meaning, you have to know about how Apache
applies its configuration to a request. Hence, let's digress a little.

Each Apache directive is used in certain contexts. Some for example
can occur only in server config context, that means outside  any C<Directory>,
C<Location> or even C<VirtualHost> container. C<Listen> or C<PidFile> are
examples. Other directives insist on being placed in a container.

Also, the point in time when a directive takes effect differs for different
directives. C<PidFile> is clearly applied during server startup before
any request is processed. Hence, our C<Config> action cannot apply C<PidFile>.
It's simply too late. C<AllowOverride> is applied to single requests.
But since it affects the processing of C<.htaccess> files it must be applied
before that processing takes place. To make things even more confusing some
directives take effect at several points in time. Consider

 Options FollowSymLinks ExecCGI

C<FollowSymLinks> is applied when Apache looks up a file in the file system,
while C<ExecCGI> influences the way the response is generated ages later.

Apache solves this complexity by computing a configuration for each single
request. As a starting point it uses the server default configuration. That
is the configuration outside any C<Location> or C<Directory> for a
virtual host. This basic configuration is assigned to the request just
between the I<Uri Translation Phase> and I<Map to Storage>. At the very
end of I<Map to Storage> Apache's core I<Map to Storage> handler incorporates
matching C<Directory> containers and C<.htaccess> files into the request's
current configuration. C<Location> containers are merged after
I<Map to Storage> is finished.

Our C<Config> action is applied early in I<Map to Storage>. That means it
affects the way Apache maps the request file name computed to the file
system, because that comes later. But it also means, your
static configuration (config file based) overrides our C<Config> actions.
This limitation can be partly overcome using C<FixupConfig> instead of
C<Config>.

Now, what does the various syntaxes mean? The simplest one:

 #uri      blk ord action
 /uri      0   0   Config: 'ProxyPassReverse http://my.backend.org'

is very close to

 <Location /uri>
   ProxyPassReverse http://my.backend.org
 </Location>

Only, it is applied before any C<Directory> container takes effect.
Note, the uri-argument to the C<Location> container is the value of
C<$MATCHED_URI>, see below. This is also valid if the C<Config> action
is used from a C<Call>ed block.

The location uri is sometimes important. C<ProxyPassReverse>, for
example, uses the path given to the location container for its own purpose.

All other forms of C<Config> are not influenced by C<$MATCHED_URI>.

These two:

 Config: ['ProxyPassReverse http://my.backend.org']
 Config: ['ProxyPassReverse /path http://my.backend.org', '']

are equivalent to

 <Location />
   ProxyPassReverse http://my.backend.org
 </Location>

Note, the location container uri differs.

The first one of them is also the only form of C<Config> available with
mod_perl before 2.0.3.

The next one:

 Config: ['ProxyPassReverse http://my.backend.org', '/path']

is equivalent to

 <Location /path>
   ProxyPassReverse http://my.backend.org
 </Location>

I have chosen C<ProxyPassReverse> for this example because the C<Location>
container uri matters for this directive, see httpd docs. The following
form of applying C<ProxyPassReverse> outside of any container is not
possible with C<Apache2::Translation>:

 ProxyPassReverse /path http://my.backend.org

Now let's look at another example to see how C<Directory> containers and
C<.htaccess> files are applied. C<AllowOverride> controls which directives
are allowed in C<.htaccess> files. As said before Apache applies C<Directory>
containers and C<.htaccess> files after our C<Config> directives.
Unfortunately, they are both applied in the same step. That means we can
say:

 Config: 'AllowOverride Options'

But if at least one C<Directory> container from our C<httpd.conf> is applied
that says for example C<AllowOverride AuthConfig> it will override our
C<Config> statement. So, if you want to control which directives are allowed
in C<.htaccess> files with C<Apache2::Translation> then avoid C<AllowOverride>
in your C<httpd.conf>, especially the often seen:

 <Directory />
   AllowOverride None
 </Directory>

Put it instead in a I<PREPROC> rule:

 #uri     blk ord action
 :PRE:    0   0   Config: 'AllowOverride None'

So subsequent rules can override it.

A similar problem exists with C<Options FollowSymlinks>. This option affects
directly the phase when C<Directory> containers are applied. Hence, any
such option from the C<httpd.conf> cannot be overridden by a C<Config> rule.

In Apache 2.2 at least up to 2.2.4 there is a bug that prevents
C<Config: AllowOverride Options> from working properly. The reason is an
uninitialized variable that is by cause 0, see
L<http://www.gossamer-threads.com/lists/apache/dev/327770#327770>

=item B<Call: string, ?@params?>

Well, the name suggests it is calling a subroutine. Assume you have several
WEB applications running on the same server, say one application for each
department. Each department needs of course some kind of authorization:

 #uri      blk ord action
 AUTH      0   0   Config: "AuthName \"$ARGV[0]\""
 AUTH      0   1   Config: 'AuthType Basic'
 AUTH      0   2   Config: 'AuthUserFile /etc/htaccess/user/'.$ARGV[1]
 /dep1     0   0   Call: qw/AUTH Department_1 dep1/
 /dep2     0   0   Call: qw/AUTH Department_2 dep2/

The C<AUTH> in the C<Call> actions refer to the C<AUTH> block list in the
C<uri> column. An optional parameter list is passed via C<@ARGV>.

C<Call> fetches the block list for a given uri and processes it. If a
C<Last> action is executed the processing of that block list is finished.

=item B<Redirect: url, ?http_code?>

The C<Redirect> action sends a HTTP redirect response to the client and
abort the current request. The optional C<http_code> specifies the
HTTP response code. Default is 302 (MOVED TEMPORARILY).

C<Redirect> tries to make the outgoing C<Location> header RFC2616 conform.
That means if the schema part is ommitted it figures out if it has to be
C<http> or C<https>. If a relative url is given an appropriate url is
computed based on the current value of C<$URI>.

If the current request is the result of an internal redirect the
redirecting request's status is changed to C<http_code>. Thus,
C<Redirect> works also for C<ErrorDocument>s.

=item B<Error: ?http_code?, ?message?>

C<Error> aborts the entire request. A HTTP response is sent to the client.
The optional C<http_code> specifies the HTTP response code. The optional
C<message> is logged as reason to the C<error_log>.

C<http_code> defaults to 500 (INTERNAL SERVER ERROR), C<message> to
C<unspecified error>.

=item B<Uri: string>

This action sets C<$r-E<gt>uri> to string. It is equivalent to

 Do: $URI=do{ string }

=item B<Key: string>

C<string> is evaluated in scalar context. The result is assigned to the
current key. The new key takes effect if the list of blocks matching the
current uri is finished.

For example:

 id  key    uri      blk ord action
  1  dflt   :PRE:    0   0   Cond: $CLIENTIP eq '192.168.0.1'
  2  dflt   :PRE:    0   1   Key: 'spec'
  3  dflt   :PRE:    0   2   Do: $DEBUG=3
  4  dflt   :PRE:    1   0   Config: 'Options None'
  5  dflt   /        0   0   File: $DOCROOT.$URI
  6  spec   /        0   0   File: '/very/special'.$URI

Here an entirely different directory tree is shown to a client with the IP
address C<192.168.0.1>. In record 2 the current key is set to C<spec> if the
condition in record 1 matches. Also, C<$DEBUG> is set in this case (record 3).

The next block in record 4 is executed for all clients, because the key
change is not in effect, yet.

Records 5 and 6 are new lists of blocks. Hence, record 6 is executed only
for C<192.168.0.1> and record 5 for the rest.

The action C<Key: 'string'> is equivalent to C<Do: $KEY='string'>.

=item B<Restart: ?newuri?, ?newkey?, ?newpathinfo?>

C<Restart> restarts the processing from the I<PREPROC> phase. The optional
arguments ar evaluated and assumed to result in strings. C<newuri> is then
assigned to C<$r-E<gt>uri> and C<$MATCHED_URI>. C<newkey> is assigned to
C<$KEY> and C<newpathinfo> to C<$MATCHED_PATH_INFO>.

=item B<State: string>

If you look for a premature exit from the current block list take the
C<Done> action.

This action affects the current state directly. Thus, you can loop back to
the I<PREPROC> state from I<PROC>. It is mostly used the prematurely finish
the translation handler from the I<PREPROC> state. As the C<Key> action
it takes effect, when the current list of blocks is finished.

C<string> is evaluated as perl code. It is expected to result in one of
the following strings. If not, a warning is printed in the C<error_log>.
State names are case insensitive:

    start
    preproc
    proc
    done

The C<State> action is similar to setting the convenience variable C<$STATE>.
Only in the latter case you must use the state constants, e.g.
C<$STATE=DONE>.

=item B<Last>

If you look for a premature exit from the current block list take the
C<Done> action.

This action finishes the current list of blocks (just like a false
condition finishes the current block). It is used together with
C<State> to finish the translation handler from a conditional block in
the I<PREPROC> state:

 :PRE:  0 0 Cond: $finish
 :PRE:  0 1 State: 'done'
 :PRE:  0 2 Last

Another application of C<Last> is to return from a C<Call> action.

=back

=head2 B<Convenience Variables and Data Structures>

=over 4

=item B<$URI>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>uri>

=item B<$REAL_URI>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>unparsed_uri>

=item B<$METHOD>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>method>

=item B<$QUERY_STRING>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>args>

=item B<$FILENAME>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>filename>

=item B<$DOCROOT>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>document_root>

=item B<$HOSTNAME>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>hostname>

=item B<$PATH_INFO>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>path_info>

=item B<$REQUEST>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>the_request>

=item B<$HEADERS>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>headers_in>

=item B<$C>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>connection>

=item B<$CLIENTIP>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>connection-E<gt>remote_ip>

=item B<$KEEPALIVE>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>connection-E<gt>keepalive>

For more information see L<Apache2::RequestRec>.

=item B<$MATCHED_URI>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>notes('Apache2::Translation::n::uri')>

=item B<$MATCHED_PATH_INFO>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>notes('Apache2::Translation::n::pathinfo')>

While in C<PROC> state the incoming uri is split in 2 parts. The first part
is matching the C<uri> field of a database record. The second part is the
rest. They can be accessed as C<$MATCHED_URI> and C<$MATCHED_PATH_INFO>.

=item B<$KEY>

the current key.

Tied to C<$r-E<gt>notes('Apache2::Translation::n::key')>

=item B<$STATE>

the current processing state.

=item B<$RC>

Normally, C<Apache2::Translation> checks at the end if C<$r-E<gt>filename> is
set. If so, it returns C<Apache2::Const::OK> to its caller. If not,
C<Apache2::Const::DECLINED> is returned. The first alternative signals that
the I<Uri Translation Phase> is done and no further handlers are to be called
in this phase. The second alternative says that subsequent handlers are
to be called. Thus, C<mod_alias> or the core translation handler
see the request.

Setting C<$RC> your action decide what is returned.

C<$RC> is also set by the C<PerlHandler> action. Modperl generated responses
are normally not associated with a single file on disk.

=item B<$DEBUG>

tied to C<$r-E<gt>notes('Apache2::Translation::n::debug')>

If set to C<1> or C<2> debugging output is sent to the C<error_log>.

=item B<%CTX>

a hash to store arbitrary data. It can be used to pass data between action
blocks. But note, it is localized to the translation handler. So, it cannot
be used to pass data between different phases of the apache request cycle.
Use C<$r-E<gt>notes> or C<$r-E<gt>pnotes> for that.

=back

=head1 APACHE CONFIGURATION DIRECTIVES

After installed and loaded by

  PerlLoadModule Apache2::Translation

in your C<httpd.conf> C<Apache2::Translation> is configured with
the following directives:

=over 4

=item B<E<lt>TranslationProvider classE<gt> ... E<lt>/TranslationProviderE<gt>>

Currently there are 3 provider classes implemented,
L<Apache2::Translation::DB>, L<Apache2::Translation::File> and
L<Apache2::Translation::BDB>.

The ellipsis represents configuration lines formatted as

 NAME   VALUE

These lines are passed as parameters to the provider. C<NAME> is case
insensitive and is converted to lowercase before passed to the provider
object. Spaces round C<VALUE> are stripped off. If C<VALUE> begins and
ends with the same quotation character (double quote or single quote)
they are also stripped off.

If C<VALUE> is not quoted or is quoted with double quote characters then
it is subject to environment variable expansion. All substrings that match
C<${VAR}> are replaced by the environment variable C<VAR>.

The provider object is then created by:

 $Apache2::Translation::class->new( NAME1=>VALUE1, NAME2=>VALUE2, ... );

where C<class> is exchanged by the actual provider name.

=item B<TranslationProvider class param1 param2 ...>

This is an alternative way to specify translation provider parameters.

Each parameter is expected to be a string formatted as

 NAME=VALUE

There must be no spaces around the equal sign. The
list is passed to the constructor of the provider class as named
parameters:

 $Apache2::Translation::class->new( NAME1=>VALUE1, NAME2=>VALUE2, ... );

If C<class> is literally C<inherit> the provider of the base server is used.
This is obviously valid only in a VHost configuration.

=item B<TranslationKey initial-key>

This sets the initial value for the key. Default is the string C<default>.

=item B<TranslationEvalCache number>

C<Apache2::Translation> compiles all code snippets into functions and caches
these functions. Normally, an ordinary hash is used for this. Strictly
speaking this is a memory hole if your translation table changes. I think
that can be ignored, if the number of requests per worker is limited,
see C<MaxRequestsPerChild>. If you think this is too lax, put a number here.

If set the cache is tied to L<Tie::Cache::LRU>. The number of cached code
snippets will then be limited by C<number>.

=back

=head2 VHost merging

If in a VHost configuration any of the above directives is ommitted it is
inherited from the base server.

=head1 WHICH PROVIDER TO CHOOSE

Unless you want to implement your own provider you can choose from these 3:

=over 4

=item * B<DB>

This is the provider implemented first. It uses a cache to store lookup
results but at least one read (to fetch the version) is made for each request.
Use it if you already have a DB engine at your site and if you don't mind the
additional lookups.

=item * B<File>

This provider is very fast. It reads the complete config file into memory and
refreshes it when modified. Hence come the greatest drawback. Each perl
interpreter reads the file and needs all the memory to hold every rule. So
with many rules and a high C<MaxClients> directive it eats up much memory.

=item * B<BDB>

Choose this provider if you have many rules and a high C<MaxClients> directive.
Since most of the database is stored in shared memory by BerkeleyDB it is
almost as fast as the C<File> provider but its resource hunger is limited.

=back

=head1 EXPORTING OUR PROVIDER PARAMETERS

A WEB server can export its provider parameters by means of the
L<Apache2::Translation::Config> module. That can then be used by the
admin interface to connect to that provider.

=head1 THE WEB ADMINISTRATION INTERFACE

The simplest way to configure the WEB interface is this:

  PerlModule Apache2::Translation::Admin
  <Location /-/transadm/>
    SetHandler modperl
    PerlResponseHandler Apache2::Translation::Admin
  </Location>

Note, here an extra PerlModule statement is necessary. If nothing else
specified the provider that has handled the current request is used.

Note, there is a slash at the end of the location statement. It is necessary
to be specified. Also, the URL given to the browser to reach the WEB interface
must end with a slash or with C</index.html>.

Another provider is given by creating an C<Apache2::Translation::Admin>
object:

  <Perl>
    $My::Transadmin=Apache2::Translation::Admin->new
         (provider_spec=>[File,
                          ConfigFile=>'/path/to/config']);
  </Perl>

  <Location /-/transadm/>
    SetHandler modperl
    PerlResponseHandler $My::Transadmin->handler
  </Location>

Here the provider is specified in a way similar to the C<TranslationProvider>
statement above.

Also, an URL can be given that links to an exported parameter set:

  <Perl>
    $My::Transadmin=Apache2::Translation::Admin->new
         (provider_url=>'http://host/config');
  </Perl>

In this case C<LWP::UserAgent> is used to fetch the parameters.

Or you can create the provider object by yourself and pass it:

  <Perl>
    use Apache2::Translation::File;
    $My::Transadmin=Apache2::Translation::Admin->new
	(provider=>Apache2::Translation::File->new
                      (configfile=>'/path/to/config'));
  </Perl>


=head1 IMPLEMENTING A NEW PROVIDER

A provider implements a certain interface that is documented in
L<Apache2::Translation::_base>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<Apache2::Translation::DB>

=item L<Apache2::Translation::BDB>

=item L<Apache2::Translation::File>

=item L<Apache2::Translation::Admin>

=item L<Apache2::Translation::_base>

=item L<Apache2::Translation::Config>

=item mod_perl: http://perl.apache.org

=back

=head1 TODO / WHISHLIST

=over 4

=item * B<UI improvements>

Help system that provides a short explanation to the actions and perhaps
convenience variables.

Action selection box.

More and better keyboard control.

=item * B<cleaning up the javascript code>

my.js could use redesign.

=item * B<auto-Done mode>

In this mode the the translation handler finishes the current state after
processing the first block list. Most of my block lists have a C<Done>
action at the end. This would also require an C<Continue> action that to
go to the next block list thus overruling the auto-Done.

=item * B<user identities + access rights>

=item * B<domain specific mode>

to delegate responsibility for certain domains to different user groups.

=item * B<some kind of I<run-once> actions>

To initialize things.

=item * B<error_log hook>

Apache implements an C<error_log> hook. If there were a perl interface to it
one could direct error messages to separate files with C<Apache2::Translation>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Torsten Foertsch, E<lt>torsten.foertsch@gmx.netE<gt>

=head1 SPONSORING

Sincere thanks to Arvato Direct Services (http://www.arvato.com/) for
sponsoring the initial version of this module.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2005-2008 by Torsten Foertsch

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

# Local Variables:
# mode: perl
# End:
