=pod

=head1 NAME

gbsed - Search/replace in binary files.

=head1 VERSION

This document describes gbsed version 1.0.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    gbsed [-m <min>|-M <max>|-x|-X] [-s|-S] <search for> infile
    gbsed [-m <min>|-M <max>|-x|-X] [-s|-S] <search for> [-r|-R] <replace with> infile outfile
    gbsed -D <text>
    gbsed [--help|--version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

gbsed lets you search and replace binary strings
and text strings in binary files.\nIf no replace
string is given, it will only print out the number
of matches found in the file.

you can search by using hex values in text strings, you can also use
wildcard matches (C<??>), which will match any wide byte.

Wildcards can not be used with the text search.

Standard in/out will be used if the input/output file
name argument is C<->.

These are all valid search strings:

    --search "0xffc300193ab2f63a"
    --search "0xff??00??3ab2f??a"
    --search "FF??00??3AB2F??A"

while these are not:

    --search "the quick brown fox" # must use --searchstr option for text
    --search "0xff?c33ab3?accc"    # no nybbles only wide bytes. (??  not ?).

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 C<--search, -s>

A string of hex values to search for.

=head2 C<-r, --replace>

A string of hex values to replace with.

=head2 C<-S, --searchstr>

Search for string instead of hex.

=head2 C<-R, --replacestr>

Replace with a string.

=head2 C<-m, --min>

Need atleast these many matches.

=head2 C<-M, --max>

Stop at a number of matches.

=head2 C<-D, --dump>

Dump hex representation of a text string (shows what is done to a -S or -R argument).

=head2 C<-x, --silent>

Suppress warnings.

=head2 C<-X, --very-silent>

Suppress all output.

=head2 C<-v, --version>

Print version information and exit.

=head2 C<-h, --help>

This help screen.

=head1 EXAMPLES

        gbsed --search 0xffc3 /bin/ls
        gbsed --search 0xffc3 --replace 0x00ea /bin/ls ./ls.patched
        gbsed --search --min 3 --max 12000 0xff /bin/ls
        gbsed --searchstr HELLO /bin/ls
        cat /bin/ls | gbsed -x -S connected -R corrupted - - | od -cx
        gbsed -D "hello world"

=head1 CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENT

C<libgbsed> requires no configuration file or environment variables.

=head1 INCOMPATIBILITIES

None known.

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

No bugs have been reported.

Please report any bugs or feature requests to
C<bug-file-bsed@rt.cpan.org>, or through the web interface at
L<http://rt.cpan.org>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item * L<libgbsed>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Ask Solem,   C<< ask@0x61736b.net >>.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Dave Dykstra C<< dwdbsed@drdykstra.us >>.
for C<bsed> the original program,

I<0xfeedface>
for the wildcards patch.

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2007 Ask Solem <ask@0x61736b.net>

gbsed is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

gbsed is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

BECAUSE THIS SOFTWARE IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
SOFTWARE, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE
SOFTWARE "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE,
YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR, OR CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL ANY
COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
SOFTWARE AS PERMITTED BY THE ABOVE LICENCE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR
THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.


=cut

