\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename readme.info
@settitle Perl Module::LocalBuild Installation
@c %**end of header

@c DESCRIPTION: TexInfo: DOCUMENT source run through texinfo to produce README file
@c Use 'make README' to produce the output file

@node Top, Copyright, (dir), (dir)

This is the Module::LocalBuild Perl Package.

@menu
* Copyright::
* Summary::
* Module::LocalBuild::
* Obtaining Distribution::
* Supported Systems::
* Installation::
@end menu

@node Copyright, Summary, Top, Top
@section Copyright

This package is Copyright 2001-2010 by Wilson Snyder @email{wsnyder@@wsnyder.org}.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of either the GNU Lesser General Public License
Version 3 or the Perl Artistic License Version 2.0.

This code is provided with no warranty of any kind, and is used entirely at
your own risk.

@node Summary, Obtaining Distribution, Copyright, Top
@section Summary

Module::LocalBuild is used to call 'perl Makefile.PL' and friends on
packages in a local working copy of a source code repository.  This
allows people to have local copies of Perl modules, and edit them at
will without having to worry about when to compile them.

It also allows the same sources to be simultaneously built and
maintained under different operating systems.

For more details see Module::LocalBuild manpage, and the t/30_locaboot.t
test which calls the example t/localboot.pl boot script.

@node Obtaining Distribution, Supported Systems, Summary, Top
@section Obtaining Distribution

Log-Detect is part of the L<http://www.veripool.org/> free EDA
software tool suite.  The latest version is available from
@uref{http://www.perl.org/CPAN/}, and from
@uref{http://www.veripool.org/}.

Download the latest package from that site, and decompress.
@samp{gunzip Log-Detect_version.tar.gz ; tar xvf Log-Detect_version.tar}

@node Supported Systems, Installation, Obtaining Distribution, Top
@section Supported Systems

This version of Module::LocalBuild has been built and tested on:

@itemize @bullet
@item i386-linux
@end itemize

It should run on any system with Perl5.

@node Installation,  , Supported Systems, Top
@section Installation

@enumerate
@item
@code{cd} to the directory containing this README notice.

@item
Type @samp{perl Makefile.PL} to configure Module::LocalBuild for your system.

@item
Type @samp{make} to compile Module::LocalBuild.

@item
Type @samp{make test} to check the compilation.

@item
Type @samp{make install} to install the programs and any data files and
documentation.

@end enumerate


