=head1 Name

README.Testing - Explains structure and use of /Testing 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The purpose of Testing directory is to provide test scripts to test the 
correct functionality of the programs provided with this distribution. The 
test scripts can be run to make sure that package is installed properly and 
all required system paths are set. This also helps us to test backward 
compatibility of programs when programs are upgraded. 

=head2 Organization 

Testing/ contains various sub directories, each of which tests 
individual program of this package. 

Each subdirectory has various .sh test files written in C shell script. 
All tests that test behavior of a program under normal conditions are 
named as testA*sh, and all those that test error conditions are named as 
testB*.sh. 

Note that in earlier versions the testA*.sh scripts were run 
by a script called normal-op.sh, and the testB*.sh scripts were run by a 
script called error-op.sh. However, this required that subtestll.sh and 
testall.sh (the main driver scripts for the Testing directory) be 
installed in the system level binary directory. We'd prefer to keep the 
Testing scripts and data isolated to the Testing directory, so we 
created a single script ot run all test cases, ALL-TESTS.sh

All test scripts in all the program directories can be run with a single 
command 'csh ./TEST-ALL.sh'. If you add or change test cases, this is 
the only place you will need to make modifications to add your test case to 
the sequence of test scripts. 

If everything is fine, the tests will show the following:

 STATUS : OK 

If the package is not installed rightly or paths not set, 
Tests will show the following:

 STATUS : ERROR 

=head1  AUTHORS

 Ted Pedersen, University of Minnesota, Duluth
 tpederse at d.umn.edu

 Amruta Purandare
 University of Pittsburgh

 Anagha Kulkarni
 Carnegie-Mellon University

 Mahesh Joshi
 Carnegie-Mellon University

=head1 Copyright

Copyright (c) 2002-2008, Ted Pedersen, Anagha Kulkarni, Mahesh Joshi, Amruta Purandare

This suite of programs is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple
Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.

Note: The text of the GNU General Public License is provided in the file
GPL.txt that you should have received with this distribution.

=cut
